Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and you may lose part or all of your investment in our shares. Please read the section on “Forward Looking Statements.” Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that requires significant interest payments, consisting principally of our senior credit facility and our outstanding 93/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2012 (the “notes”). Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • limiting our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for purposes such as potential acquisitions, capital expenditures, marketing, development and other general corporate purposes; • vulnerability to fluctuations in interest rates, as a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears variable rates of interest, including interest rate swap agreements; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors who may be less highly leveraged than us; • reducing our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our business and our industry; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and • making us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. 16 Table of Contents We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to pay or refinance our indebtedness, and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, legislative and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, and future borrowings under our senior credit facility or from other sources may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying research and development, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or investments. In addition, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including our senior credit facility and our outstanding notes, on or before their maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In the absence of such refinancing, we could be forced to dispose of assets under circumstances that might not be favorable to realizing the highest price for such assets. The indenture related to our notes and our senior credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. The indenture related to our notes and the terms of our senior credit facility impose restrictions on, and the terms of any future debt may restrict, our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, respond to changing business or economic conditions or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy or otherwise important to us. These restrictions will, among other things, limit our ability and that of our subsidiaries to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • repurchase our stock; • make investments; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • create liens; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate, merge or sell all of our assets. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Covenants in our senior credit facility also require us to use a portion of the proceeds we receive in specified issuances of debt or equity and specified asset sales to repay outstanding borrowings under our senior credit facility. We cannot assure you that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities or limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness and this may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default applies. If we are not successful in integrating Compex, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized. If our stockholders are to realize the anticipated benefits of the Compex transaction, our operations must be integrated and combined efficiently. We cannot assure you that the integration will be successful or that the anticipated benefits of the merger will be fully realized. Failure to successfully integrate Compex could negatively impact any possible appreciation in the value of our common stock. The dedication of our management resources to integration activities relating to the Compex merger and other acquisitions we may pursue in the future may detract attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the need to integrate personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combine different corporate cultures. This integration may also be more difficult due to our integration challenges as a result of any future acquisitions. We cannot assure you that there will not be substantial costs associated with the integration process, that certain operations of either or both companies may not have to be consolidated or eliminated, that such consolidation or elimination may not entail significant costs, that certain personnel may not be entitled to severance payments if 17 Table of Contents their positions are eliminated, that integration activities will not result in material write downs in assets, charges to earnings from possible discontinued operations, a decrease in revenues or a decrease in the value of our common stock, or that there will not be other material adverse effects from our integration efforts. Our integration of the acquisition of Empi is ongoing and we may incur substantial costs to achieve, and may not be able to realize, the anticipated cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements from integrating Empi’s operations with our current business and with Compex. If we cannot successfully complete the integration of Empi’s operations with our current business and with Compex, we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations and to the business, financial conditions or results of operations of the combined company. The integration of companies that have previously operated separately will continue to be a costly and time-consuming process that will involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • demands on management related to the significant increase in the size of the business for which they are responsible; • diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures, practices and sales and distribution methodologies, as well as in the assimilation and retention of extensive and geographically dispersed operations and personnel; • larger international operations and increased exposure to risks relating to business operations outside the United States; • difficulties and unanticipated expenses related to the integration of departments, information technology systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, including internal accounting controls, procedures and policies; and • costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities. Successful integration of Empi’s operations with our current business and with Compex will depend on our ability to manage the combined operations, to realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by broader product offerings and expanded geographic coverage and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. If our integration efforts are not successful, it may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we have achieved or might have achieved if these companies had continued to operate independently. Furthermore, even if we are able to integrate successfully the operations of Empi with our current business and with Compex, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements that were anticipated from the integration, either in the amount or the time frame that we currently expect, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we currently expect. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: • our ability to eliminate effectively duplicative back office overhead and overlapping and redundant selling, general and administrative functions, rationalize manufacturing capacity and shift production to more economical facilities; • the use of more cash resources on integration and implementation activities than we currently expect, could offset any such savings and other synergies resulting from the Empi acquisition; • increases in other expenses, operating losses or problems unrelated to the acquisition, which may offset the cost savings and other synergies from the acquisition or divert resources intended to be used in the integration; and • our ability to avoid labor disruption in connection with the integration. Future acquisitions could entail risks of their own, in addition to risks we otherwise face. Our business strategy is to pursue additional acquisitions of companies or businesses. Any acquisition strategy is subject to inherent risk, including risks that we will not be able to identify potential partners, successfully negotiate economically beneficial terms, successfully integrate such business, retain its key employees and achieve the anticipated revenue, cost benefits or synergies. Additionally, we may issue additional shares in connection with any future acquisition which could dilute the holdings of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors for our products are not obtained, surgeons and patients may be reluctant to use our products, and our sales may decline. Our sales depend largely on government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and private payors reimbursing patients for costs of purchasing our products. Surgeons, hospitals and other healthcare providers may not recommend or purchase our products if they do not receive satisfactory reimbursement from these third-party payors for the cost of the procedures using our products. Consequently, we may be unable to sell our products on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of reimbursement. Payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. Healthcare providers may attempt to control costs by (i) authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures, including joint reconstructive surgeries, (ii) by requiring the use of the least expensive product available, or (iii) reducing the reimbursement for or limiting the number of authorized visits for rehabilitation procedures. In foreign markets, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. Canada and some European countries, in particular France, have lowered reimbursement rates. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of our products may decline. In the United States, Germany and the other countries in which we operate, third-party payors, primarily governmental payors, private payors and managed care companies, typically reimburse us for our medical products purchased or rented by patients. Changes in the coverage of, and reimbursement for, our products by these third-party payors could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. For example, in the United States, Medicare and private payors frequently engage in efforts to contain costs, which may result in a reduction of coverage of, and reimbursement for, our products. We believe that physicians and physical therapists will be less likely to use, purchase or prescribe our products if their patients are unable to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors, which may adversely affect our sales and profitability. In addition, many other payors base their coverage and reimbursement policies on Medicare policies. As a result, third-party payors’ coverage of, and reimbursement for, our products could be negatively impacted by legislative, regulatory or other measures that reduce Medicare coverage and reimbursement generally. Our international sales also depend upon the eligibility of our products for reimbursement through third-party payors, the amount of reimbursement and the allocation of payments between the patient and third-party payors. Reimbursement practices vary significantly by country, with certain countries requiring products to undergo a lengthy regulatory review in order to be eligible for third-party reimbursement. In addition, healthcare cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the United States are prevalent in many of the foreign countries in which our products are sold, and these efforts are expected to continue in the future, possibly resulting in the adoption of more stringent reimbursement standards. Any developments in our foreign markets that eliminate, reduce or materially modify coverage of, and reimbursement rates for, our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or cause our customers to use less expensive products in these markets. Recent changes in coverage and reimbursement policies for our products by Medicare or reductions in reimbursement rates for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or Medicare Modernization Act, mandated a number of changes in the Medicare payment methodology and conditions for coverage of orthotic devices and durable medical equipment, including Empi’s TENS and NMES devices. These changes include a freeze in payments for durable medical equipment from 2004 through 2008, a payment freeze for orthotic devices from 2004 through 2006, competitive bidding requirements, new clinical conditions for payment and quality standards. Although these changes affect our products generally, specific products may be affected by some but not all of the Medicare Modernization Act’s provisions. Prefabricated orthotic devices and certain durable medical equipment, including TENS devices, may be subject to a competitive bidding process established under the Medicare Modernization Act. Although neither proposed nor final regulations have been issued in connection with the competitive bidding process and requirements, it appears that under the competitive bidding process, which will be phased in beginning in 2007, Medicare will no longer reimburse certain products and services based on the current fee schedule amount but will instead provide reimbursement for these items and services based on payment amounts as determined under a competitive bidding process to be established for suppliers within designated geographic areas. Only those suppliers selected as a result of the competitive bidding process within each designated region will be eligible to have their products reimbursed through Medicare. The competitive bidding process may reduce the number of suppliers providing certain items and services to Medicare beneficiaries and the amounts paid for such items and services within a given geographic area. Also, Medicare reimbursement in regions not subject to competitive bidding may be reduced using payment information from regions subject to competitive bidding. Any payment reductions or the inclusion of certain of our products for payment by Medicare as a result of the competitive bidding process, in addition to the other changes to Medicare reimbursement and standards contained in the Medicare Modernization Act, could have a material adverse effect on 19 Table of Contents our results of operations. In addition, if we are not selected in a region in which we participate in the competitive bidding process, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Medicare Modernization Act also requires that new clinical conditions for payment of durable medical equipment be established. TENS and NMES products could be impacted by this requirement if and when applicable conditions are established. At this time, we cannot predict what standards will be adopted, the timing of such adoption or the impact any standards that are adopted may have on our business. In addition, in 2005, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, published a final rule finalizing an interim final regulation implementing “inherent reasonableness” authority, which allows adjustments to payment amounts for certain items and services covered by Medicare when the existing payment amount is determined to be grossly excessive or grossly deficient. The regulation lists factors that may be used to determine whether an existing reimbursement rate is grossly excessive or grossly deficient and to determine what is a realistic and equitable payment amount according to CMS. These regulations provide that a payment amount will not be considered grossly excessive or grossly deficient if an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% would be necessary to produce a realistic and equitable payment amount. The regulation remains in effect after the enactment of the Medicare Modernization Act, although the new legislation precludes the use of inherent reasonableness authority for payment amounts established under the competitive bidding process. Medicare and Medicaid accounted for approximately 4.5% of our net revenues in 2005, although other third-party payors may adopt similar guidelines. When using the inherent reasonableness authority, CMS may reduce reimbursement levels for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, reduction in payment or loss of coverage under Medicare could result in similar action by private payors and have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our international operations expose us to risks related to conducting business in multiple jurisdictions outside the United States. The international scope of our operations may expose us to economic, regulatory and other risks in countries in which we operate. We generated approximately 22% and 16% of our revenue from sales outside the United States for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. One component of our growth strategy following the Empi acquisition is to expand our combined international operations. Therefore, we anticipate that as a combined company the percentage of sales generated outside the United States will increase compared to the percentage of our foreign sales prior to the Empi acquisition. The nature of our international operations exposes us to the following risks: • imposition of or an increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; • potential adverse tax consequences, including the imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries and exposure to adverse tax regimes; • the imposition of additional foreign governmental controls or regulations on the sale of our products; • changes in political and economic conditions; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in attracting high-quality management, sales and marketing personnel to staff our foreign operations; • import restrictions and controls, tariffs and other trade barriers; • exposure to different legal, regulatory and political standards in multiple countries; and • acts of terrorism and acts of war. In addition, as we grow our operations internationally, we will become increasingly dependent on foreign distributors and sales agents for our compliance and adherence to foreign laws and regulations that we may not be familiar with and we cannot assure you that these distributors and sales agents will adhere to such laws and regulations. Any violation of laws and regulations by foreign distributors or sales agents could result in legal or regulatory sanctions against us or potentially damage our reputation in that international market. As we continue to expand our operations internationally our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and manage effectively these and other risks. Our failure to manage these risks and grow our international operations may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in international regulations regarding coverage and reimbursement for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Similar to our domestic business, our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems. Coverage and reimbursement practices vary significantly by country, with certain countries requiring products to undergo a lengthy regulatory review in order 20 Table of Contents to be eligible for government reimbursement. In addition, healthcare cost containment efforts similar to those undertaken in the United States are prevalent in many of the foreign countries in which our products are sold, and these efforts are expected to continue in the future, possibly resulting in the adoption of more stringent measures for coverage and in lower reimbursement. Any developments in our foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or cause our customers to use less expensive products in these markets. Additionally, in Germany, our largest foreign market, new regulations generally require adult patients to pay a portion of each medical technical device prescribed. This may adversely affect our sales and profitability by making it more difficult for patients in Germany to pay for our products. Product liability claims may harm our business if our insurance proves inadequate or the number of claims increases significantly. We have been, and we are currently, the subject of a number of product liability claims and lawsuits relating to our products. The manufacture and sale of orthopedic devices exposes us to significant risk of product liability claims, lawsuits and product recalls. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. If there is a significant increase in the number or amount of product liability claims, our business could be adversely affected. Even if we are successful in defending against any liability claims, such claims could nevertheless distract our management, result in substantial costs, harm our reputation, adversely affect the sales of all our products and otherwise harm our business and results of operations. We maintain product liability insurance with coverage that we believe to be adequate and are not currently aware of any product liability claims that could reasonably be expected to exceed our insurance coverage if we were found to be liable. Our insurance policy is provided on a claims made basis and is subject to annual renewal. We cannot assure you that any liability claims made against us will not exceed the coverage limit of such policy or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Additionally, we are also subject to the risk that our insurers will exclude our coverage claim for any reason or that insurers may become insolvent. If we do not or cannot maintain sufficient liability insurance, our ability to market our products may be significantly impaired. We operate in a highly competitive business environment and our inability to compete effectively could adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. The markets in which we sell our products are all highly competitive. In the orthopedic rehabilitation market, there are both large and small companies with which we compete. Our competitors in the physical therapy products market include several large, diversified companies with significant market share and numerous smaller niche companies. The market for our surgical implant products is dominated by a small number of very large companies. We may not be able to offer products similar to or more desirable than our competitors, or at a price comparable to that of our competitors. Many of our competitors have: • greater financial and other resources; • more widely accepted products; • a larger number of endorsements from healthcare professionals; • a larger product portfolio; • superior ability to maintain new product flow; • greater research and development and technical capabilities; • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; • stronger name recognition; • larger sales and distribution networks; and/or • international manufacturing facilities that enable them to avoid the transportation costs and foreign import duties associated with shipping our products manufactured in the United States to international customers. Accordingly, we may be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to these competitors. These factors may be material to our ability to develop and sell our products. Our failure to compete effectively in developing and selling our products would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop or license new and innovative products or product enhancements or find new applications for our existing products, we will not remain competitive. The markets for our products are characterized by continued new product development and the obsolescence of existing products. Our future success and our ability to increase revenues and make payments on our indebtedness will depend, in part, on our ability to develop, license, distribute and acquire new and innovative products, enhance our existing products with new technology and find new applications for our existing products. However, we may not be able to develop successfully or introduce new products or enhance existing products, find new applications for our existing products, manufacture, market and distribute products in a cost-effective manner, establish relationships with marketing partners, obtain coverage of and satisfactory reimbursement for our future products or product enhancements or obtain required regulatory clearances and approvals in a timely fashion or at all. The failure to develop or license and market new products and product enhancements, find new applications for our existing products and receive regulatory approval or clearance and obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products could materially and adversely affect our competitive position, which could cause a significant decline in our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if any of our new or enhanced products contain undetected errors or design defects, especially when first introduced, or if new applications that we develop for existing products do not work as planned, our ability to market these and other products could be substantially delayed and we could ultimately become subject to product liability litigation, resulting in lost revenues, potential damage to our reputation and/or delays in regulatory clearance, approval of our product or obtaining acceptance of the product, and other products, by physicians, physical therapists and other professionals that recommend and prescribe our products. We rely on our own direct distribution network for certain of our products, which may result in higher fixed costs and may slow our ability to reduce costs in the face of a sudden decline in demand for our products. We rely on our own direct sales force to market and sell the orthopedic rehabilitative products which are intended for use in the home and in rehabilitation clinics. Some of our competitors rely predominantly on independent sales agents and third-party distributors. A direct sales force may subject us to higher fixed costs than those of companies that market competing products to ours, due to the costs that we will bear associated with employee benefits, training and managing sales personnel, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, these fixed costs may slow our ability to reduce costs in the face of a sudden decline in demand for our products, which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. If we fail to establish new sales and distribution relationships or maintain our existing relationships, or if our independent sales agents and third-party distributors fail to commit sufficient time and effort or are otherwise ineffective in selling our products, our results of operations and future growth will be adversely impacted. The sales and distribution of our surgical implant and certain of our orthopedic rehabilitative products depend, in part, on relationships with a network of independent commissioned sales representatives and private distributors. These independent sales representatives and distributors maintain the relationships with the hospitals, orthopedic surgeons, chiropractors and other healthcare professionals that purchase, use and recommend the use of our products. Although our internal sales staff trains and manages the sales representatives and the distributors, we do not control or directly monitor the efforts that they make to sell our products. Our failure to attract and retain skilled independent sales agents and distributors, our failure to adequately train and monitor the efforts of the sales representatives and distributors that market and sell our products or our existing sales representatives and distributors choosing not to carry our products, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of the independent sales representatives that we use to sell our surgical implant products also sell products that directly compete with our core offerings. We cannot assure you that the sales representatives and private distributors that market and sell our products will dedicate the necessary efforts to market and sell our products. Our quarterly operating results are subject to substantial fluctuations, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future results. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • demand for our products and our ability to meet the demand for our products; • increased competition; • the number, significance and timing of introduction of new products and enhancements by us or our competitors; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; 22 Table of Contents • changes in the treatment practices of our surgeon customers; • the loss of preferred provider status with managed care programs or buying groups; • impact of acquisitions; • impact of litigation, regulatory and other legal proceedings; • impact of new accounting regulations, standards or policies; • the timing of significant orders and shipments; • availability of raw materials; • recalls of our products; • work stoppages or strikes in the healthcare industry; and • general economic factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, our quarterly operating results may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our performance for a fiscal year or future performance. Additionally, while we do not believe that our results of operations are materially affected by seasonal changes, our fourth quarter sales of certain of our products have historically been stronger. We believe that the increase in our results for the fourth quarter is due, in part, to increased spending during the fourth quarter by patients who desire to use funds remaining in flexible spending accounts prior to the end of the year and choose to purchase home rehabilitation products or to undergo surgical procedures using our surgical implant products. We cannot assure you that this strength in our fourth quarter results will continue in the future. Our reported results may be adversely affected by increases in reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable, sales allowances, product returns, rental credits and inventory. We have a large balance of receivables and have established a reserve for the portion of such receivables that we estimate will not be collected. We may experience changes in our rates of collection of current accounts receivable or past-due receivables recorded for previous fiscal periods. Changes in our collection rates can result from a number of factors, including turnover in personnel, changes in the payment policies or practices of payors or changes in industry rates or pace of reimbursement. Historically, our reserve for uncollectible receivables has fluctuated and our reserve will continue to fluctuate in the future. Changes in rates of collection or fluctuations, even if they are small in absolute terms, could require us to increase our reserve for uncollectible receivables beyond its current level. Our net revenues and profitability are affected by changes in reserves to account for uncollectible accounts receivable, sales allowances, product returns and rental credits. The reserve for sales allowances account for sales of our products below the invoice price. Such sales generally result from agreements that we enter into with certain customers that permit them to pay us for our products in amounts that are below the invoice price of the product. We estimate the amount of the reduction based on historical experience and invoices generated in the period. The reserve for product returns accounts for customer returns of our products after purchase. These returns are mainly attributable to a third-party payor’s refusal to provide a patient release or reimbursement for the product or the inability of the product to adequately address the patient’s condition. If we increase the percentage of our sales made pursuant to agreements providing for reimbursement below invoice price or if customers return products at a higher than estimated rate, we may be required to increase our sales allowance and product return reserves beyond their current levels. Our reserve for rental credit recognizes a timing difference between billing of a purchase and processing of a rental credit associated with some of our electrotherapy devices. Many insurance providers require patients to rent our rehabilitation devices for a period of one to three months prior to purchase. If the patient has a long-term need for the device, these insurance companies may authorize purchase of the device after such time period. When the device is purchased, most providers require that rental payments previously made on the device be credited toward the purchase price. These credits are processed at the time the payment is received for the purchase of the device, which creates a time lag between billing of the purchase and processing of the rental credit. Our rental credit reserve accounts for unprocessed rental credits based on the number of devices converted to purchase. If the frequency of rental to purchase conversion increases, we may be required to increase our rental credit reserve beyond its current level. The nature of our business requires us to maintain sufficient inventory on hand at all times to meet the requirements of our customers. We maintain inventory reserves for such issues as slow moving or excess inventory, product obsolescence and 23 Table of Contents declines in valuation. In each division we use a specific identification methodology. In addition, we review sales performance on at least a quarterly basis to determine the amounts that we should add to the existing reserves. We monitor reserves on a quarterly basis and make changes when necessary. To determine the adequacy of our reserves at each reporting period we analyze the following, among other factors: current inventory quantities on hand, product acceptance in the marketplace, customer demand, historical sales, forecasted sales, product obsolescence and technological innovations. If there is a material change due to these factors, the current level of the reserve for inventory may not be adequate and would result in our increasing the reserve level in the future. Any increase in our reserves for sales allowances, product returns, rental credits, uncollectible accounts receivable or inventory could adversely affect our reported financial results by reducing our net revenues and/or profitability for the reporting period. The success of our surgical implant products depends on our relationships with leading surgeons who assist with the development and testing of our products. A key aspect of the development and sale of our surgical implant products is the use of designing and consulting arrangements with surgeons who are well recognized in the healthcare community. These surgeons assist in the development and clinical testing of new surgical implant products and they participate in symposia and seminars introducing new surgical implant products and with training of healthcare professionals in using our new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or renewing our designing and consulting arrangements with our current surgeons or that we will be successful in developing arrangements with new surgeons. If we are not able to maintain these relationships or develop new relationships, our ability to develop and test new surgical implant products will be adversely affected which will have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. The success of all of our products depends heavily on our relationships with healthcare professionals who prescribe and recommend our products, and our failure to maintain these relationships could adversely affect our businesses. We have developed and maintain close relationships with a number of leading orthopedic surgeons, physicians, physical therapists, athletic trainers and other healthcare professionals, and we believe that sales of our products depend significantly on their recommendation of our products. Acceptance of our products depends on educating the healthcare community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to the products offered by our competitors and on training healthcare professionals in the proper use and application of our products. Our failure to maintain these relationships and develop similar relationships with other leading healthcare professionals could result in a decrease in the recommendation of our products, which may adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our products are subject to recalls even after receiving FDA or foreign regulatory clearance or approval. Recalls could harm our reputation and business. We are subject to ongoing medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA or governmental authorities in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacturing. In addition, in light of a material deficiency or design defect or defect in labeling, we may voluntarily elect to recall one of our products, as we have done in the past. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall would divert managerial and financial resources and could harm our reputation with all of our customers and with the healthcare professionals that use, prescribe and recommend our products. We cannot assure you that we will not have product recalls in the future or that such recalls would not have a material adverse effect on our business. In general, voluntary recalls do occur and most often are not significant in terms of time required to recall, human resource needs or customer dissatisfaction. If we lose one of our key suppliers or one of our contract manufacturers stops making our products, we may be unable to meet customer orders for our products in a timely manner or within our budget. We rely on a limited number of foreign and domestic suppliers for the raw materials and components used in our products. One or more of our suppliers may decide for reasons beyond our control to cease supplying us with raw materials and components. FDA regulations may require additional testing of any raw materials or components from new suppliers prior to our use of these materials or components and in the case of a device which is the subject of a pre-market approval, we may be required to obtain prior FDA permission (which may or may not be given), either of which could delay or prevent our access or use of such raw materials or components. If we are unable to obtain materials we need from our suppliers and we cannot obtain 24 Table of Contents these materials from other sources, we may be unable to manufacture our products for a period of time or within our manufacturing budget, which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we also rely on third parties to manufacture some of our products. Medireha, which is 50% owned by us, has been Empi’s single source supplier for all of its continuous passive motion devices. If we encounter a cessation, interruption or delay in the supply of the products purchased from Medireha, we may be unable to obtain such products through other sources, on acceptable terms, within a reasonable amount of time or at all. Any such cessation, interruption or delay may impair our ability to meet scheduled deliveries of passive motion devices to our customers and may cause our customers to cancel orders and adversely affect our reputation and our results of operations. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facilities, we may be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time, which could cause our sales to decline. We principally rely on manufacturing facilities in Clear Lake, South Dakota, for our electrotherapy and iontophoresis products; in Chattanooga, Tennessee, for our continuous passive motion products, various electrotherapy and patient care products and physical therapy and chiropractic treatment tables; in Umkirch, Germany, for continuous passive motion products and in Austin, Texas, for our surgical implant products. These facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial time to repair or replace. In the event one of our facilities was affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers. However, third-party manufacturers may not be available or they may be unable to produce our products on the schedule or to the specifications that we require. We currently carry insurance in the aggregate amount of $125 million to protect us against such disasters. However, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses or may become unavailable on acceptable terms, if available at all. Our business plan relies on certain assumptions concerning demographic and other trends that impact the market for our products, which, if incorrect, may adversely affect our expected results of operations. We believe that various demographics and industry specific trends will, in the future, help drive growth in the sale of our products. Our ability to achieve our business objectives is subject to a variety of factors, including the relative increase in the aging of the general population and the general increase in participation in exercise and sports and more active lifestyles. In addition, our business plan, and the growth of our electrotherapy products in particular, relies on an increasing clinical acceptance of electrotherapy as a non-invasive treatment regimen. We believe that these trends will increase the need for our orthopedic, physical therapy and surgical implant products. The projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect or do not materialize. However, these demographics and trends are beyond our control and if our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect, we may not successfully implement our strategy, which could adversely affect our business plan and results of operations. In addition, the perceived benefits of these trends may be offset by business or competitive factors or factors not currently foreseen, such as the introduction of new products by our competitors or the emergence of other countervailing trends. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the continued service of key managerial, research and development staff, sales and technical personnel. In addition, our future success will also depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining our current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse affect on our business. Many of our existing management personnel have been employed by us for five years or less, including Paul Chapman, our President and Chief Operating Officer, who joined us when we acquired Chattanooga in February 2002, William W. Burke, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, who joined us in August 2004 and Scott Klosterman, our Executive Vice President, President-Orthopedic Rehabilitation Division who joined us in February 2002. These executives have substantial experience and expertise in our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our management team to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. We cannot be certain that we will be able to allocate responsibilities efficiently or that the new members of our executive team will succeed in their roles. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulation governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and the related occupational health and safety regulations. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury 25 Table of Contents resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury. In addition, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could also be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. We may incur significant expenses in the future relating to any failure to comply with environmental laws. Any such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. Enactment of stricter laws or regulations, stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations or the requirement to undertake the investigation or remediation of currently unknown environmental contamination at our own or third party sites may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our foreign operations expose us to currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks. Our principal foreign subsidiary Ormed, which is incorporated in Germany, records the majority of its revenues and certain of its expenses in euros. Ormed’s results are reflected in our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars. Therefore, our reported results are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro. During a period in which the U.S. dollar strengthens versus the euro, our reported consolidated net revenues will be lower than they might otherwise have been because net revenues earned in euros will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition, Ormed purchases the majority of its product inventory in U.S. dollars, with the purchase translated into euros at the time of payment, and the inventory expense recognized in euros at the time of sale. The assets and liabilities of Ormed that are reflected on our consolidated balance sheet are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, while the net revenues and operating expenses of Ormed that are reflected on our consolidated statement of operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted-average exchange rate for the reporting period. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Accordingly, changes in currency exchange rates will cause our net income and stockholders’ equity to fluctuate. We have, in the past, protected ourself from the possible negative effects of exchange rate fluctuations as a result of Ormed’s U.S. dollar purchases by entering into hedging transactions on an ongoing basis. We expect to continue to enter into such hedging transactions and expect to obtain in the future one or more forms of currency protection in the form of forward exchange contracts, options or similar agreements. However, we cannot assure you that any hedging will adequately protect us from the adverse effects of changes in exchange rates or that counterparties under these agreements will honor their obligations thereunder. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in our products and the processes for the development, manufacture and marketing of our products. We use non-patented, proprietary know-how, trade secrets, processes and other proprietary information and employ various methods to protect this proprietary information, including confidentiality agreements and proprietary information agreements with vendors, employees, independent sales agents, distributors, consultants and others. In addition, we also hold U.S. and foreign patents relating to a number of our components and products and have patent applications pending with respect to other components and products. We also apply for additional patents in the ordinary course of our business, as we deem appropriate. However, these precautions offer only limited protection and our proprietary information may become known to, or be independently developed by, competitors, or our proprietary rights in intellectual property may be challenged, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we cannot assure you that our existing or future patents, if any, will afford us adequate protection or any competitive advantage, that any future patent applications will result in issued patents or that our patents will not be circumvented, invalidated or declared unenforceable. We do not consider patent protection to be a significant competitive advantage in the marketplace for electrotherapy devices. However, patent protection may be of significance with various aspects of our orthotics technology. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws, if at all. We may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. In addition, we hold patent and other intellectual property licenses from third parties for some of our products and on technologies that are necessary in the design and manufacture of some of our products. The loss of such licenses would prevent us from manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm our business. 26 Table of Contents Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we become involved in litigation regarding our patents or other intellectual property rights. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights is common in our industry and companies in this industry have used intellectual property litigation in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage. We currently are, and in the future we may become, a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. Such litigation is costly and time consuming. If we lose one of these proceedings, a court, or a similar foreign governing body, could require us to pay significant damages to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our products, or prevent us from manufacturing, using or selling our products, any of which would have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. While in connection with some current patent infringement litigation we are involved with, we have indemnification rights against third parties, there can be no assurance that such parties will not contest their indemnification obligations or be unable to financially satisfy those obligations. We have and may in the future also bring actions against third parties for an infringement of our intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the foreign equivalents thereto, and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time consuming. In addition, protracted litigation to defend or prosecute our intellectual property rights could seriously detract from the time our management would otherwise devote to running our business. Intellectual property litigation relating to our products could cause our customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. We may expand into new markets and products and our expansion may not be successful. We may expand into new markets through the development of new product applications based on our existing specialized technology and design capabilities. These efforts could require us to make substantial investments, including significant research, development, engineering and capital expenditures for new, expanded or improved manufacturing facilities which would divert resources from other aspects of our business. Expansion into new markets and products may be costly without resulting in any benefit to us. Specific risks in connection with expanding into new markets include the inability to transfer our quality standards into new products, the failure of customers in new markets to accept our products and price competition in new markets. If we choose to expand into markets and are unsuccessful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Many healthcare industry companies, including medical device, orthopedic and physical therapy products companies, are consolidating to create larger companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants will become more intense. In addition, many of our customers are also consolidating and our customers and other industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for the products that we manufacture and market. If we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our revenues would decrease and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations in the United States or abroad could adversely affect our business. Our products are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and by the foreign equivalents in countries where we do business. The FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device’s testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting, promotion and distribution. The FDA also regulates the export of medical devices to foreign countries. In general, unless an exemption applies, a medical device must receive either pre-market approval or pre-market clearance from the FDA before it can be marketed in the United States. There can be no assurance that a particular device will be approved or cleared by the FDA through either the 510(k) pre-market clearance process or the pre-market approval process. Additionally, we may be required to obtain pre-market approvals, pre-market approval supplements or pre-market clearances to market modifications to our existing products or market our existing products for new indications. The FDA requires device manufacturers themselves to make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires an approval, supplement or clearance; however, the FDA can review and disagree with a manufacturer’s decision. We have applied for, and received, a number of such approvals in the past. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in receiving approvals in the future or that the FDA will agree with our decisions not to seek approvals, supplements or clearances for particular device modifications. The FDA may require approval or clearances for past or any future modifications or new indications for our existing products. Such submissions may require the submission of additional clinical or preclinical data and may be time consuming and costly, and may not ultimately be cleared or approved by the FDA. 27 Table of Contents If the FDA requires us to obtain pre-market approvals, pre-market approval supplements or pre-market clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall such modified device until we obtain FDA clearance or approval and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, there can be no assurance that the FDA will clear or approve such submissions in a timely manner, if at all. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business. The FDA also may change its policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay pre-market approval or pre-market clearance of our devices, or could impact our ability to market a device that was previously cleared or approved. Our failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These sanctions include warning letters, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production. In the development of new products or new indications or modifications to existing products, we may conduct or sponsor clinical trials. Clinical trials are expensive and require significant investment of time and resources and may not generate the data we need to support a submission to the FDA. Clinical trials are subject to regulation by the FDA and, if federal funds are involved or if an investigator or site has signed a federal assurance, are subject to further regulation by the Office of Human Subject Protection and the National Institutes of Health. Failure to comply with such regulation, including but not limited to, failure to obtain adequate consent of subjects and to adequately disclose financial conflicts, could result in fines, penalties, suspension of trials, and the inability to use the data to support an FDA submission. In the international market, we are subject to regulations for clinical studies in each respective country. In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to extensive regulations that are comparable to those of the FDA, including those in Europe, our largest foreign market. The regulation of our products in Europe falls primarily within the European Economic Area, which consists of the fifteen member states of the European Union, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Only medical devices that comply with certain conformity requirements are allowed to be marketed within the European Economic Area. Failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications in the European Economic Area or other foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our marketing and sales practices may contain certain risks with respect to the manner in which these practices were historically conducted that could have a material adverse effect on us. We have entered into written agreements for designing and consulting services with surgeons for surgical implant products, and we compensate them under our designing surgeon agreements for services in developing and marketing products sold by us. The form of compensation for such services has historically been a royalty on the sale of our surgical implant products. We have compensated our consulting surgeons who help us in our product development and clinical efforts with cash payments and, in certain cases, options to acquire stock. We believe that in each instance remuneration paid to surgeons represents fair market value for the services provided or is otherwise in compliance with applicable laws. We also utilize an independent sales force for our surgical implant products for which we provide compliance-related training. The sales force has generally been compensated on a commission basis, based on a percentage of revenues generated by products sold. In addition, our marketing and sales practices directed toward existing and potential referral sources have included the provision of goods, services and other remuneration that we believe is standard in the industry. Under applicable federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse, anti-kickback, false claims and self-referral laws, it could be determined that such remuneration and practices fall outside of permitted compensation arrangements, thereby subjecting us to possible civil and/or criminal sanctions (including the exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs) which could have a material adverse effect on our surgical implant business and possibly on our other lines of business. While we maintain that we have a satisfactory compliance program, it may not be adequate in the prevention of violations or the detection thereof. The form and effectiveness of our compliance program may be taken into account by the government in assessing sanctions, if any, should it be determined that violations of laws have occurred. Certain federal and state laws and regulations regarding reimbursement and coverage of products and services by Medicare and Medicaid, as well as federal and state laws addressing healthcare fraud and abuse, physician self-referrals, and other relationships with providers are broad in scope and apply to our relationships with healthcare providers and entities who may prescribe or recommend our products, and who may assist us in the development and promotion of our products, and we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare laws are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Audits or denials of our claims by government agencies could reduce our revenues or profits. As part of our business operations, we submit claims on behalf of patients directly to and receive payments directly from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payors. Therefore, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including requirements for submitting reimbursement claims under appropriate codes, and maintaining certain documentation to support our claims. Medicare contractors and Medicaid agencies periodically conduct pre- and post-payment reviews and other audits of claims, and are under increasing pressure to more closely scrutinize healthcare claims and supporting documentation. As indicative of a provider of products, Empi historically has been subject to pre-payment and post-payment reviews as well as audits of claims and may experience such reviews and audits of claims in the future. We cannot assure you that such reviews and/or similar audits of our claims will not result in material delays in payment, as well as material recoupments or denials, which could reduce our net revenues and profitability nor in exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from participation on the provider panel or a private payer. Private payors may from time to time conduct similar reviews and audits. We have not been subject to any reviews or audits that have resulted in any material delays in payments or material reductions in our net revenues or profitability. Healthcare reform, managed care and buying groups have put downward pressure on the prices of our products. Healthcare reform and the healthcare industry’s response to rising healthcare costs have caused a significant expansion of managed care organizations and buying groups. This growth of managed care has resulted in downward pressure on the reimbursement paid for our products and greater attention to balancing the costs and benefits of using a particular product or treatment. One result of this cost-benefit analysis has been, and is expected to continue to be, a shift toward coverage and payments based on more cost-effective treatment alternatives, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. A further result of healthcare reform and the related pressure to contain costs has been the advent of buying groups in the United States. These group purchasing organizations enter into preferred supplier arrangements with one or more manufacturers of medical products in return for price discounts to members of the group purchasing organizations. If we are not able to obtain new preferred supplier commitments for major group purchasing organizations or retain those commitments that we currently have, which are generally terminable by either party for any reason upon the expiration of a defined notice period, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. However, even if we are able to obtain and retain preferred supplier commitments from buying groups, they may not deliver high levels of compliance by their members, meaning that we may not be able to offset the negative impact of lower per-unit prices or lower margins with increases in unit sales or in market share. In Germany and other international markets, we have historically experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform similar to that which we have experienced in the United States. We expect healthcare reform and managed care to continue to develop in these international markets, which we expect will result in further downward pressure on product pricing and may adversely affect our sales and profitability. We cannot predict the timing or impact of healthcare reform on us, nor the development of managed care in international markets. If a significant number of shares of our common stock are sold into the market, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline, even if our business is doing well. Our stockholders may sell their common stock, and our employees, directors, officers, sales representatives and distributors may exercise their stock options in order to sell the common stock underlying their options in the market under one or more registration statements we have filed with the SEC. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales may occur could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. As of December 31, 2005, TC Group, LLC and MPI Holdings, LLC (collectively “TC Group”), which stockholders have no affiliation with any of our directors, beneficially owned approximately 12.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and Galen Partners III, L.P., Galen Partners International III, L.P. and Galen Employee Fund III, L.P. (collectively “Galen Partners”) beneficially owned approximately 19.4%. Two of our directors are affiliated with the Galen Partners. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent another company from merging with us or from acquiring us, even if our stockholders were to consider such merger or acquisition to be favorable. Our stock price may be volatile and your continued investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. You may be unable to resell shares of our common stock or our other securities at or above the original sales price thereof. There has been significant volatility in the stock market and in particular in the market price and trading volume of 29 Table of Contents securities of orthopedic companies and other healthcare companies, which has often been unrelated to the performance of the companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Market volatility has also resulted in dramatic declines in a particular company’s stock price in response to specific news about that company which investors perceive as unfavorable. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of technological innovations or new products; • clinical trial results; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property rights, or those of our competitors; • FDA and international actions with respect to the government regulation of medical devices and third-party reimbursement matters; • public concern as to the safety of our products; • changes in U.S. or international healthcare policies; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • our inability to raise any additional required capital; • conditions of other medical device companies or the medical device industry generally; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the medical device industry generally. Our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders may be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2005, our significant stockholders, executive officers and directors, including stockholders with which directors are affiliated, specifically Galen Partners and TC Group beneficially owned approximately 31.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these individuals, together with Galen Partners and TC Group are able to substantially influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as acquisitions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company, could impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination which you, as a stockholder, may otherwise view favorably and may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. The interests of our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We are effectively prohibited from paying cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future under the terms of our credit agreement and indenture. Moreover, we plan to retain all earnings for investment in our business and do not plan to pay cash dividends at any time in the foreseeable future. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 