Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Discussion of our business and operating results included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. We undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements. Our Business could be Harmed by Adverse General Economic and Market Conditions which could Lead to Reduced Spending on Information Technology Products. Our markets have been and will continue to be affected by global macroeconomic conditions. As our business expands globally, we are increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. If global economic conditions deteriorate or economic uncertainty continues, our clients might experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages and difficulty obtaining financing which may delay or reduce their purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect our OEM and VAR customers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations, which would increase our credit risk exposure and cause a decrease in operating cash flows. Also, if OEM and VAR customers experience excessive financial difficulties and/or insolvency, and we are unable to successfully transition end-users to purchase products from other vendors or directly from us, sales could decline. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruption in Credit Markets and World-Wide Economic Changes may Adversely Affect our Business, Financial Condition, and Results of Operations. Disruptions in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business and financial results. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the funds available to our customers to buy our products and services. It may also result in customers extending the length of time in which they pay and in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause customers to reduce their purchases, even if they have cash or if credit is available to them. We have a Substantial Amount of Indebtedness, which could Impact our Ability to Obtain Future Financing or Pursue our Growth Strategy. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $252.2 million of indebtedness, including $252.0 million aggregate principal amount of 11.75% Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (Notes). Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences and significant adverse effects on our business, including the following: · We must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; · Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; · Our high level of indebtedness could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less indebtedness; · Our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; and 6 INDEX · Our high level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. The indenture governing our Notes contains, and the instruments governing any indebtedness we may incur in the future may contain, restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our best interest. The indenture, among other things, limits our ability to: · Incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; · Pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of capital stock; · Make certain investments or certain other restricted payments; · Issue dividends and enter into other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries; · Enter into transactions with stockholders or affiliates; · Create or incur liens; · Enter into certain sale-leaseback transactions; · Guarantee indebtedness; · Merge or consolidate without meeting certain conditions; and · Issue or sell stock of certain subsidiaries. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a portion of our outstanding indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Payments on our Indebtedness will Require a Significant Amount of Cash. Our Ability to Meet our Cash Requirements and Service our Indebtedness is Impacted by Many Factors that are Outside of our Control. We expect to obtain the funds to pay our expenses and to pay the amounts due under the Notes primarily from our operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and make these payments thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenue and cash flow may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have sufficient cash resources in the future, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing indebtedness, sell assets or borrow more money. We cannot be assured that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve any of these alternatives could materially adversely affect the value of the Notes and our ability to pay the amounts due under the Notes. See the section captioned “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated herein by reference. We may be Able to Incur Substantial Additional Indebtedness that could Further Exacerbate the Risks Associated with our Indebtedness. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing the Notes contains restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional secured indebtedness. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above under “— We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing or pursue our growth strategy” and “— Payments on our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to meet our cash requirements and service our indebtedness is impacted by many factors that are outside of our control” would intensify. Our Future Capital Needs are Uncertain and our Ability to Access Additional Financing may be Negatively Impacted by the Volatility and Disruption of the Capital and Credit Markets and Adverse Changes in the Global Economy. Our capital requirements in the future will depend on many factors, including: · Acceptance of and demand for our products; 7 INDEX · The extent to which we invest in new technology and product development; · The costs of developing new products, services or technologies; · Our interest and principal payment obligations; · The number and method of financing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; and · The costs associated with the growth of our business. We must continue to enhance and expand our product and service offerings to maintain our competitive position, satisfy our working capital obligations and increase our market share. We have in the past required substantial capital infusions. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future may be limited or available only on disadvantageous terms. We currently do not have a credit facility and such a facility may be difficult to obtain in the future given the amount of indebtedness that we have incurred and future market conditions. Unless we can achieve cash flow levels sufficient to support our operations, we may require additional borrowings or the sale of debt or equity securities, sale of non-strategic assets, or some combination thereof, to provide funding for our operations. Our ability to borrow in the future is dependent upon our ability to manage business operations and generate sufficient cash flows to service such indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient working capital or obtain alternative financing, we may not be able to borrow or otherwise obtain additional funds to finance our operations when needed, our financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected. If global economic conditions deteriorate, we could experience a decrease in cash flows from operations and may need additional financing to fund operations. Due to the existing uncertainty in the capital markets (including debt, private equity, venture capital and traditional bank lending), access to additional debt or equity may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms when necessary, we may not be able to develop or enhance products and services, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Healthcare Industry Consolidation could Impose Pressure on our Software Prices, Reduce our Potential Client Base and Reduce Demand for our Software. Many hospitals and imaging centers have consolidated to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation trend continues, it could reduce the size of our potential customer base and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our software. In addition, when hospitals and imaging centers combine, they often consolidate infrastructure, and consolidation of our customers could erode our revenue base. We may Experience Significant Fluctuations in Revenue Growth Rates and Operating Results. We may not be able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We base expense levels and investment plans on sales estimates and review all estimates on a quarterly basis. Many of our expenses and investments are fixed and we may not be able to adjust spending quickly enough if sales are lower than expected. Our revenue growth may not be sustainable and our percentage growth rates may decrease or fluctuate significantly. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for our products and services offered through us or our OEM and VAR customers, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions worldwide. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due to risks described elsewhere in this section and the following: · Demand for our software solutions and services; · Our sales cycle; · Economic cycles; · The level of reimbursements to our end-user customers from government sponsored healthcare programs (principally, Medicare and Medicaid); · Accounting policy changes mandated by regulating entities; · Delays due to customers’ internal budgets and procedures for approving capital expenditures, by competing needs for other capital expenditures and the deployment of new technologies and personnel resources; · Our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ demands; · Our ability to fulfill orders; 8 INDEX · The introduction of competitive products and services; · Price decreases; · Changes to regulatory approval processes and/or requirements; · Timing, effectiveness and costs of expansion and changes in our systems and infrastructure; · The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims involving us; and · Variations in the mix of products and services offered by us. Delays in the expected sales or installation of our software may have a significant impact on our anticipated quarterly revenues and, consequently, our earnings since a significant percentage of expenses are relatively fixed. Additionally, we sometimes depend, in part, upon large contracts with a small number of customers to meet sales goals in any particular quarter. Delays in the expected sales or installation of solutions under these large contracts may have a significant impact on our quarterly net sales and consequently our earnings, particularly because a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. The Length of our Sales and Implementation Cycles may Adversely Affect our Operating Results. We have experienced long sales and implementation cycles. How and when to implement, replace, expand or substantially modify medical imaging management software, or to modify or add business processes, are major decisions for our end-user target market. The sales cycle for our software ranges from six to 18 months or more from initial contact to contract execution. Our end-user implementation cycle has generally ranged from three to nine months from contract execution to completion of implementation. During the sales and implementation cycles, we will expend substantial time, effort and resources preparing contract proposals, negotiating the contract and implementing the software, and may not realize any revenues to offset these expenditures. Additionally, any decision by our customers to delay or cancel purchases or the implementation of our software may adversely affect net sales. We Operate in Competitive Markets, which may Adversely Affect our Market Share and Financial Results. Some of our competitors are focused on sub-markets within targeted industries, while others have significant financial and information-gathering resources with recognized brands, technological expertise and market experience. We believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services and investing in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. We face competition in specific industries and with respect to specific offerings. We may also face competition from organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us, but that could adapt their products and services to meet the demands of our customers. Increased competition may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings or make additional capital investments that would adversely affect margins. If we are unable or unwilling to do so, we may lose market share in target markets and our financial results may be adversely affected. We face Aggressive Competition in Many Areas, and our Business will be Harmed if we Fail to Compete Effectively. The markets for Healthcare IT solutions are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We may be unable to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources, and we may not be able to compete effectively with them. In addition, new competitors may emerge and our system and software solution offerings may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of our solutions. We often compete with our OEM customers’ own internal software engineering groups. The size and competency of these groups may create additional competition. The development and acquisition of additional products, services and technologies, and the improvement of our existing products and services, require significant investments in research and development. For example, our current portfolio is in various stages of development and may require significant further research, development, pre-clinical or clinical testing, regulatory approval and commercialization. If we fail to successfully sell new products and update existing products, our operating results may decline as existing products reach the end of their commercial life cycles. 9 INDEX If We Are Unable to Successfully Identify or Effectively Integrate Acquisitions, our Financial Results may be Adversely Affected. We have in the past and may in the future acquire and make investments in companies, products or technologies that we believe complement or expand our existing business and assist in quickly bringing new products to market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisitions at acceptable valuations. In addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from past and future acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the offerings, technology, administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business in an efficient and effective manner. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at anticipated levels. In addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities, or disrupt operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations. In addition, we may use our capital stock to acquire acquisition targets, which could be dilutive to the existing stockholders and cause a decline in the price of our common stock. In making or attempting to make acquisitions or investments, we face a number of risks, including risks related to: · Identifying suitable candidates, performing appropriate due diligence, identifying potential liabilities and negotiating acceptable terms; · The potential distraction of our management, diversion of our resources and disruption to our business; · Retaining and motivating key employees of the acquired companies; · Managing operations that are distant from our current headquarters and operational locations; · Entering into industries or geographic markets in which we have little or no prior experience; · Competing for acquisition opportunities with competitors that are larger or have greater financial and other resources than us; · Accurately forecasting the financial impact of a transaction; · Assuming liabilities of acquired companies, including existing or potential litigation related to the operation of the business prior to the acquisition; · Reducing our working capital and hindering our ability to expand or maintain our business, if acquisitions are made using cash; · Maintaining good relations with the customers and suppliers of the acquired company; and · Effectively integrating acquired companies and achieving expected synergies. In addition, any acquired business, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue and net income to offset the associated costs of such acquisitions, and such acquisitions could result in other adverse effects. Moreover, from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies but be unable or unwilling to consummate the acquisitions under consideration. This can be expensive and could cause significant diversion of managerial attention and resources. We have Incurred and may Continue to Incur Costs Associated with Acquisition Activities. In the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred $1.6 million, $9.7 million and $1.2 million of acquisition related costs, respectively. All such direct acquisition costs are expensed as incurred by us. In addition, we often are required to incur charges to operations in the quarters following an acquisition to reflect costs associated with integrating acquired companies. We may incur additional material charges in subsequent quarters associated with acquisitions. We anticipate that our acquisition activities will require cash outflows directly related to completing acquisitions as well as costs related to integration efforts. If the benefits of an acquisition do not exceed the costs of integrating the businesses, our financial results may be adversely affected. A Portion of our Business Relies Upon a Network of Independent Contractors and Distributors Whose Actions could have an Adverse Effect on our Business. We obtain some critical information from independent contractors. In addition, we rely on a network of VARs and distributors to sell our offerings in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or direct sales team. These independent contractors, VARs and distributors are not our employees. As a result, we have limited ability to monitor and direct their activities. The loss of a significant number of these independent contractors, VARs or distributors could disrupt our sales, marketing and distribution efforts. Furthermore, if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or otherwise are deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions or reputation damage, any of which could adversely affect our business and require us to terminate relationships with them. 10 INDEX Our Investments in Technology may not be Sufficient and may not Result in an Increase in our Revenues or Decrease in our Operating Costs. As the technological landscape continues to evolve, it may become increasingly difficult for us to make timely, cost-effective changes to our offerings in a manner that adequately differentiates them from those of our competitors. We cannot provide any assurance that our investments have been or will be sufficient to maintain or improve our competitive position or that the development of new or improved technologies and products by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Performance and Future Success Depends on our Ability to Attract, Integrate and Retain Qualified Technical, Managerial and Sales Personnel. We are dependent, in part, upon the services of our senior executives and other key business and technical personnel. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on our senior executives. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success will depend upon, among other things, the successful recruiting, training and retention of highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel with experience in similar business activities. Competition for the type of highly skilled individuals that we seek is intense. We may not be able to retain existing key employees or be able to find, attract and retain skilled personnel on acceptable terms. We may not be Able to Adequately Protect our Intellectual Property Rights or may be Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties. We regard our patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as important to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with employees, customers and others to protect our proprietary rights. Our U.S. patents may not provide us with a competitive advantage or may be challenged by third parties. Further, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate intellectual property rights in all countries where we do business. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of these rights. Any claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. If we are found liable for infringement, we may be required to pay damages or cease making or selling certain products. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed on their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on favorable terms, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing services under commercial agreements. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. We also rely on proprietary know how and confidential information and employ various methods, such as entering into confidentiality and non-compete agreements with our current employees and with certain third parties to whom we have divulged proprietary information to protect the processes, concepts, ideas and documentation associated with our solutions. Such methods may not afford sufficient protection, and we may not be able to protect trade secrets adequately or ensure that other companies would not acquire information that we consider proprietary, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive harm that could adversely affect our business. We have Foreign Exchange Rate Risk. Our international operating results are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. While the functional currency of most of our international operations is the U.S. Dollar, certain account balances are maintained in the local currency. Upon remeasurement of such accounts or through normal operations, results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of such balances. As we expand international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations may increase. We may not be Successful in our Efforts to Expand into International Markets. Our international activities are material to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In 2011, our international revenues were $20.5 million, or about 9% of total revenues. We have limited experience operating in international markets and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and websites and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. 11 INDEX In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: · Local economic and political conditions; · Foreign government regulation of healthcare and government reimbursement of health services; · Local restrictions on sales or distribution of certain products or services and uncertainty regarding liability for products and services; · Local import, export or other business licensing requirements; · Local limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; · Shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow; · Local laws and regulations regarding data protection, privacy, network security and restrictions on pricing; · Difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; · Different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers’ councils and labor unions; · Laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans and taxes; and · Geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. If our New and Existing Products, Including Product Upgrades, and Services do not Achieve and Maintain Sufficient Market Acceptance, our Business, Financial Condition, Cash Flows, Revenues, and Operating Results could Suffer. The success of our business depends and will continue to depend in large part on the market acceptance of: · Our existing products and services; · Our new products and services, and · Enhancements to existing products, support and services. There can be no assurance that customers will accept any of these products, product upgrades, support or services. In addition, even if customers accept these products and services initially, we cannot be assured that they will continue to purchase our products and services at levels that are consistent with, or higher than, past quarters. Customers may significantly reduce their relationships with us or choose not to expand their relationship with us. In addition, any pricing strategy that we implement for any of our products, product upgrades, or services may not be economically viable or acceptable to our target markets. Failure to achieve or to sustain significant penetration in our target markets with respect to any of these products, product upgrades, or services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Achieving and sustaining market acceptance for these products, product upgrades and services is likely to require substantial marketing and service efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create awareness and demand by participants in the healthcare industry. In addition, deployment of new or newly integrated products or product upgrades may require the use of additional resources for training our existing sales force and customer service personnel and for hiring and training additional sales and customer service personnel. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities for new products, product upgrades and services will justify the amounts that we spend for their development, marketing and rollout. If we are unable to sell new and next-generation software products to healthcare providers that are in the market for healthcare information and/or image management systems, such inability will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenues and operating results, If anticipated software sales and services do not materialize, or if we lose customers or experience significant declines in orders from customers, our revenues would decrease over time due to the combined effects of attrition of existing customers and a shortfall in new client additions. If we Fail to Manage Future Growth Effectively, we may be Unable to Execute our Business Plan, Maintain High Levels of Service or Address Competitive Challenges Adequately. We plan to expand our business. We anticipate that this expansion will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in infrastructure, service offerings and service center expansion. In addition, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures. Our future growth will place a significant strain on managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage growth successfully, our business will be harmed. 12 INDEX Litigation or Regulatory Actions could Adversely Affect our Financial Condition. As a result of lawsuits and regulatory matters, including the matters discussed in Item 3, Legal Proceedings in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have incurred and may continue to incur substantial expenses. In addition, we are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims incident to our business activities. Such matters may include, among other things, assertions of contract breach or intellectual property infringement, claims for indemnity arising in the course of our business and claims by persons whose employment has been terminated. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. We are unable to estimate the ultimate aggregate amount of monetary liability, amounts which may be covered by insurance or recoverable from third parties, or the financial impact with respect to these matters as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these legal proceedings were to result in an unfavorable outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We may be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People or Property are Harmed by the Products and Services that we Sell. Some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or environmental or property damage and may require product recalls or other actions. Certain third parties, primarily our customers, also sell products or services using our products. This may increase our exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available on economically reasonable terms or at all. In addition, some of our agreements with vendors and sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Provide Customers with Certain Warranties that could Result in Higher Costs than Anticipated. Software products such as ours that are used in a wide range of clinical and health information systems settings may contain a number of errors or “bugs,” especially early in their product life cycle. Our products include clinical information systems used in patient care settings where a low tolerance for errors or bugs exists. Testing of products is difficult due to the wide range of environments in which systems are installed. The discovery of defects or errors in our software products or in our implementation of integrated solutions may cause delays in product delivery, poor client references, payment disputes, contract cancellations, harm to our reputation, product liability claims or additional expenses and payments to rectify problems. Furthermore, our customers might use our software together with products from other companies or those that they have developed internally. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does note cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our research and development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. Any of those factors may result in delayed acceptance of, or the return of, our software products. We Depend on Licenses from Third Parties for Rights to Some Technology we use, and if we are Unable to Continue these Relationships and Maintain our Rights to this Technology, our Business could Suffer. Some of the technology used in our software depends upon licenses from third party vendors. These licenses typically expire within one to five years, can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. We may not be able to continue using the technology made available to us under these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce software shipments until we obtain equivalent technology, if available, which could hurt our business. Most of our third party licenses are nonexclusive. Our competitors may obtain the same right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, particularly with regard to the Microsoft Windows/Intel platform on which most of our products operate, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own software. This could have an adverse effect on our business. We are Subject to Government Regulation, Changes to which could Negatively Impact our Business. We are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), including periodic FDA inspections, in Canada under Health Canada’s Medical Devices Regulations, and in other countries by corresponding regulatory authorities. We may be required to undertake additional actions in the U.S. to comply with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA Act), regulations promulgated under the FDCA Act, and any other applicable regulatory requirements. For example, the FDA has increased its focus on regulating computer software intended for use in a healthcare setting. If our software solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, we could be subject to more extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities. Complying with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive, and may include: 13 INDEX · Requiring us to receive FDA clearance of a pre-market notification submission demonstrating substantial equivalence to a device already legally marketed, or to obtain FDA approval of a pre-market approval application establishing the safety and effectiveness of the software; · Requiring us to comply with rigorous regulations governing the pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, distribution, labeling and promotion of medical devices; and · Requiring us to comply with the FDCA Act regarding general controls, including establishment registration, device listing, compliance with good manufacturing practices, reporting of specified malfunctions and adverse device events. Similar obligations may exist in other countries in which we do business, including Canada. Any failure by us to comply with other applicable regulatory requirements, both domestic and foreign, could subject us to a number of enforcement actions, including warning letters, fines, product seizures, recalls, injunctions, total or partial suspensions of production, operating restrictions or limitations on marketing, refusals of the government to grant new clearances or approvals, withdrawals of marketing clearances or approvals and civil and criminal penalties. Changes in Federal and State Regulations Relating to Patient Data could Depress the Demand for our Software and Impose Significant Software Redesign Costs. Federal regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) impose national health data standards on healthcare providers that conduct electronic health transactions, healthcare clearinghouses that convert health data between HIPAA compliant and non-compliant formats and health plans. Collectively, these groups are known as covered entities. HIPAA regulations prescribe transaction formats and code sets for electronic health transactions, protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information and require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. Although we are not a covered entity, most of our customers are, and they require that our software and services adhere to HIPAA regulations. Any failure or perceived failure of our software or services to meet HIPAA regulations, or breach of our network security, could adversely affect demand for our software and services and potentially require us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to modify our software or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our clients. States and foreign jurisdictions have adopted, or may adopt, privacy standards that are similar to or more stringent than the federal HIPAA privacy regulations. This may lead to different restrictions for handling individually identifiable health information. As a result, our customers may demand IT solutions and services that are adaptable to reflect different and changing regulatory requirements, which could increase our development costs. In the future, federal, state or foreign governmental authorities may impose new data security regulations or additional restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. We cannot predict the potential impact that these future rules may have on our business; however, the demand for our software and services may decrease if we are not able to develop and offer software and services that can address the regulatory challenges and compliance obligations facing our clients. Healthcare Reform Legislation may have a Negative Impact on our Business. Among other things, Reductions in Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement Rates for Imaging Procedures and Professional Services could Negatively Affect Revenues of our Hospital and Imaging Clinic Customers, which could Reduce our Customers’ Ability to Purchase our Software and Services. The U.S. Congress has enacted far-reaching health system reform legislation that could have a negative impact on our business. While the impact of the legislation is difficult to predict, the legislation will increase pressure to control spending in government programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid) and by third party payors. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for their services from these programs and payors is critical to the success of our company. For example, changes in the equipment utilization rate, once fully implemented, have the potential to decrease technical reimbursements for radiology procedures, and could have a particularly negative impact on hospitals and imaging clinics in rural regions of the country where utilization rates are naturally lower. A second significant potential reimbursement change relates to the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) component of the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule. The SGR is part of the update factor process used to set the annual rate of growth in allowed reimbursable medical expenditures, and is determined by a formula specified by Congress. Because the annual calculation of the SGR would have led to reimbursement reductions that Congress found unacceptable, Congress has interceded to delay the implementation of this statutory SGR update factor. While these changes have provided temporary reimbursement relief to healthcare providers and us, because of the significant budgetary impacts, Congress has retained the SGR formula, thereby allowing annual unimplemented payment reductions to accumulate in the Medicare statute. The Congress and the Obama administration are currently considering legislation to attempt to fix or delay this problem, but the prospects for enactment remain uncertain. The changes being considered have the potential to negatively impact the professional component of reimbursement. 14 INDEX Changes related to the equipment utilization assumption and the SGR calculation could result in a reduction in software and service procurement of our customers, and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. There are a Limited Number of Stockholders who have Significant Control over our Common Stock, Allowing them to have Significant Influence over the Outcome of all Matters Submitted to Stockholders for Approval, which may Conflict with our Interests and the Interests of other Stockholders. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders (stockholders owning 10% or more of our common stock) beneficially owned approximately 35.6 million, or 37.4%, of the outstanding shares of common stock and stock options that could have been converted to common stock at December 31, 2011, and such stockholders will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and other corporate actions. As of December 31, 2011, Merrick and its affiliates owned approximately 35.2% of our common stock. The influence of our large stockholders could impact our business strategy and also have the effect of discouraging others from attempting us to take over, thereby increasing the likelihood that the market price of our common stock will not reflect a premium for control. Our Large Stockholders may have Interests that Differ from other Stockholders. Merrick and its affiliates, including Merrick Ventures, beneficially own, as of December 31, 2011, 35.2% of our outstanding common stock. Michael W. Ferro, Jr., our Chairman of the Board, and trusts for the benefit of Mr. Ferro’s family members beneficially own a majority of the equity interest in Merrick. Mr. Ferro also serves as the chairman and chief executive officer of Merrick and the chairman and chief executive officer of Merrick Ventures. Accordingly, Mr. Ferro indirectly owns or controls all of the shares of our common stock owned by Merrick and Merrick Ventures. Due to its stock ownership, Merrick has significant influence over our business, including the election of our directors. Effective as of January 1, 2009, we entered into a consulting agreement with Merrick. Services provided by Merrick under the consulting agreement include financial analysis and strategic planning. Effective January 1, 2010, we entered into an amendment to extend the term of the consulting agreement through December 31, 2011, and modified the payment terms from a flat fee arrangement per quarter to a per transaction or success based arrangement. On February 24, 2012, we entered into a second amendment, effective January 3, 2012, to extend the term of the consulting agreement with Merrick through December 31, 2013, and modified the fee structure to include a quarterly retainer in the amount of $150,000. This is in addition to the per transaction or success based arrangement that exists. Further, the second amendment includes a modification of the success payment in the event of a sale, by including a payment of 2% of the total consideration received if the total consideration is greater than $1 billion (the agreement still allows for a 1% success fee if under $1 billion). The cost of this consulting agreement in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1.2 million, $2.1 million and $0.5 million, respectively. In April 2010, Merrick purchased 10,000 shares of our Series A Non-Voting Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (Series A Preferred Stock) and 1,800,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million. These shares were purchased by Merrick at the same price per share as paid by the other investors in the transaction. Merrick also purchased, at the same price per Note as the other investors, $5.0 million of the $200.0 million of Notes that we issued in April 2010 to complete our acquisition of AMICAS, On July 30, 2010, we acquired substantially all of the Olivia Greets assets from Merrick Healthcare Solutions, LLC (Merrick Healthcare), an affiliate of Merrick Ventures, for 500,000 shares of our common stock.Merrick Healthcare transferred these shares of common stock to Merrick Ventures after the expiration of the one-year trading restriction. As a result of the Olivia Greets acquisition, the value-added reseller agreements that we entered into with Merrick Healthcare in March 2009 and March 2010 were terminated. On June 20, 2011, Merrick purchased $5.0 million of the $52.0 million of additional Notes that we issued on June 20, 2011. Merrick purchased the Notes at the same purchase price per Note as the other investors in the transaction. We used the proceeds from this private placement of additional Notes to redeem and retire all outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock for approximately $1,176 per share, including $11.8 million to redeem and retire the 10,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock held by Merrick. In December 2011, we entered into a master services agreement with higi llc (“higi”), pursuant to which we agreed to provide higi with certain professional services, including software engineering design, application and web portal development for a fixed payment of $0.7 million. We recognized $0.5 million in revenue and were paid $0.5 million in 2011 under this Agreement, with the remaining fees to be earned in 2012. In addition, the master services agreement granted higi certain branding rights related to our health station business and requires higi to pay a fixed annual fee of $100 per station to us for each station that is branded with higi’s trademarks and that includes higi’s software, images and/or other intellectual property. No such stations are currently in service, although a pilot program for higi-branded stations may be launched during 2012. The agreement has an initial term of one year, with continuing renewal rights, and is subject to termination on 120 days notice. Merrick Ventures owns over 75% of higi’s outstanding equity interests and Mr. Ferro is higi’s Chairperson and Founder. On February 24, 2012, we entered into an Assignment Agreement with Merrick Ventures under which Merge will sublease from Merrick approximately 4,700 square feet located at 200 E. Randolph Street, 22nd floor, Chicago, IL at an annual rental rate of $78,000, terminating on December 13, 2013. The rent will be paid to Merrick monthly and is exactly the same rate as Merrick currently pays under its lease. Under the Assignment, Merge will also pay approximately $70,000 (which represents the book value) for all fixtures, leasehold improvements and furniture located in the space. 15 INDEX As a result of these relationships, the interests of Merrick and its affiliates may differ from those of our other stockholders. Merrick Ventures and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and maximizing the return on those investments. They currently have, and may from time to time in the future acquire, interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain aspects of our business or that supply us with goods and services. Merrick and its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Merrick’s significant ownership of our voting stock will enable it to influence or effectively control us. The Market Price of our Common Stock may Decline as a Result of Acquisitions. The market price of our common stock may decline after acquisitions are completed. Some of the issues that we could face are: · The integration of an acquired business is unsuccessful or takes longer or is more disruptive than anticipated; · We do not achieve the expected synergies or other benefits of the acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated, if at all; · The effect of the acquisition on our financial results does not meet the expectations of Merge, financial analysts or investors; or · After the acquisition, the business does not perform as anticipated. In connection with the acquisitions of etrials and Confirma in the third quarter of 2009, we issued 9.4 million additional shares of our common stock. We did not use our common stock as consideration for the AMICAS acquisition in April of 2010, but we did issue 7.5 million shares of our common stock to the purchasers of our new class of Preferred Stock that funded a portion of the purchase price for the AMICAS acquisition. In 2011, we issued 6.8 million additional shares of our common stock in connection with one acquisition completed in 2010 and three other acquisitions completed in 2011. The increase in the number of outstanding shares of our common stock may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Shares of our Common Stock Eligible for Public Sale may have a Negative Impact on the Market Price of our Common Stock, and Dilute our Stockholders’ Percentage Ownership and Voting Power. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital, should we wish to do so, through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 90.9 million shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding options to purchase approximately 9.2 million shares of our common stock, of which approximately 4.2 million options were then exercisable. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing holders of our common stock or by holders of outstanding options, upon the exercise thereof, could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. As additional shares of common stock become available for sale in the public market, due to the exercise of options or the issuance of shares as a result of acquisitions, the market supply of shares of common stock will increase, which could also decrease the market price. We are unable to estimate the number of shares that may be sold because this will depend on the market price for our common stock, the personal circumstances of the sellers and other factors. Any sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or other securities in the open market may adversely affect the market price of such securities and may adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing in the capital markets as well as create a potential market overhang. Because we do not Intend to Pay Cash Dividends, Stockholders will Benefit from an Investment in our Stock Only if it Appreciates in Value. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to fund future growth, and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased and will purchase shares. 16 INDEX The Trading Price of our Common Stock has been Volatile and may Fluctuate Substantially in the Future. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: · Our ability to meet or exceed the expectations of analysts or investors; · Changes in our forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; · Quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; · Announcements regarding clinical activities or new products by us or our competitors; · General conditions in the healthcare IT industry; · Governmental regulatory action and healthcare reform measures, including changes in reimbursement rates for imaging procedures; · Rumors about our performance or software solutions; · Announcements regarding acquisitions; · Uncertainty regarding our ability to service existing debt; · Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many software, healthcare and technology companies; and · General economic conditions. In addition, the market for our common stock may experience price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These fluctuations could have a significant impact on our business due to diminished incentives for management and diminished currency for acquisitions. Certain Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law could make a Takeover Difficult and May Prevent or Frustrate Attempts by our Stockholders to Replace or Remove our Management Team. Various provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or discourage some transactions involving an actual or potential change in control and may limit the ability of our stockholders to remove current management or approve transactions that our stockholders may deem to be in their best interests. For instance, we have an authorized class of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock all of which shares are undesignated except for 50,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock (none of which were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011). Shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock may be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval, on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designation as the board of directors may determine. Issuance of such preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations thereof, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of us. In addition, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: · Require that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing; · Provide an advance written notice procedure with respect to stockholder proposals and the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than nominations made by or at the direction of our board of directors or a committee of our board of directors; · State that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer or by a majority of our board of directors then in office; and · Allow our directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors, including vacancies resulting from removal or enlargement of the board of directors. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware corporate law which, subject to certain exceptions, will prohibit us from engaging in any “business combination” with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years following the date that the person came to own 15% or more of our common stock, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and of Delaware law, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price, and the voting and other rights of the holders, of our common stock. In addition, these provisions make it more difficult to replace or remove our current management team in the event our stockholders believe this would be in our best interest and the best interests our stockholders. 17 INDEX Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 