Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of the common stock or other securities of the Company involves certain risks. Holders of the Company’s securities and prospective investors in those securities should carefully consider the following risk factors and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report, in evaluating an investment in the Company’s securities. If any of the risks and uncertainties discussed below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, other risks and uncertainties of which we are not currently aware, including those relating to the banking and financial services industries in general, or which we do not now believe are material, may cause earnings to be lower, or impair our future financial condition or results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally. The United States is currently in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are experiencing serious financial difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity and a lack of financing for many investors. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. In addition, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. - 20 - - TABLE OF CONTENTS Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $200 billion in the equity of other banking organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of its borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the State of Colorado and in the United States as a whole. Overall, during 2008, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States. The business environment in Colorado and the markets in which the Company operates has been less adverse than in the United States generally but continues to deteriorate. It is expected that the business environment in the State of Colorado and the United States will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, the value of the Company’s investment securities, and its overall results of operations and financial condition. United Western Bank relies on institutional deposits. A significant portion of United Western Bank’s total deposits are funds deposited as a result of unaffiliated institutional relationships maintained by United Western Bank. At December 31, 2008, six unrelated institutional relationships accounted for $812 million of our total deposits including custodial escrow deposits. Sterling, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, accounted for $351 million of our total deposits. Matrix Financial Solutions, Inc., a company in which we own an approximate 7% interest, accounted for $203 million of our deposits and Legent Clearing, a company in which our Chairman owns an indirect minority interest, accounted for $120 million of our deposits. Institutional depositors generally are more sensitive to interest rate levels due to the amount of money they maintain on deposit than retail consumers who bank at a branch office. The Bank’s future success in retaining and attracting institutional depositors depends, in part, on its ability to offer competitive rates and services. With the unprecedented events in the financial markets in the United States over the past year, deposit concentrations are an increasing risk to all depository institutions and to the Company. If United Western Bank loses one or more of these institutional relationships, its liquidity, profitability and results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected. See Note 8 to the financial statements. Our business is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect: (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s management of interest rate risk. - 21 - - TABLE OF CONTENTS Continued declines in interest rates would likely hurt our earnings. The decline in market interest rates that occurred throughout 2008 and in particular in the fourth quarter negatively impacted our net interest income. Although interest rates are historically low, additional declines in interest rates are expected to have a negative impact on net interest income, net interest spread, net interest margin, and overall results of operations. We believe that the continued implementation of our community bank business plan, and the resulting change in asset and liability mix, will partially mitigate the impact of lower market rates. The Bank’s loan portfolio remains concentrated in real estate. Real estate lending (including commercial, construction, land development, and residential) remains a large portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio. These categories constitute $1.4 billion, or approximately 89% of the Bank’s total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008. Real estate values are generally affected by changes in economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax and other laws and acts of nature. A downturn in the real estate markets in which United Western Bank originates, purchases and services mortgage and other loans could hurt its business because these loans are secured by real estate. In addition, even though the Bank’s real property collateral is currently located throughout the United States, the amount of such collateral in Colorado, which at December 31, 2008 was $865 million, or 56% of our total loan portfolio, is likely to increase as a result of our community banking strategy. A continuation of the downturn in the real estate markets where the Bank has loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bank’s real estate loans also include $278 million of construction loans and $123 million of land development loans. These loans have a historically greater risk of non-payment and loss than other mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful completion and sale or operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans also typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential loans. At December 31, 2008 there is one $2.9 million nonperforming construction and development loan and another $1.8 million asset that has been foreclosed. If one or more of our larger borrowers were to default on their construction and development loans, we could incur significant losses. At December 31, 2008, $362 million, or 90%, of our construction and development loans are for projects located in Colorado. We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. United Western Bank attempts to minimize its credit risk with prudent loan application approval procedures, including an analysis of the credit risk, a valuation of the underlying collateral, monitoring of loan concentration within specific industries and geographic locations and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by its loan review and audit departments. Nevertheless, we are exposed to significant credit risks, including possible errors in United Western Bank’s credit analysis, the uncertainty of the borrower’s ability to repay the loans, the uncertainty of future economic conditions and the possibility of loan defaults. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – Balance Sheet – Asset Quality” and “Balance Sheet –Allowance for Credit Losses” in this report. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. The Company’s allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The allowance for credit losses reflects the Company’s estimate of the probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. The amount of actual losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for credit losses further or that regulators will not require United Western Bank to increase its allowance, either of which could adversely affect us. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – Balance Sheet – Asset Quality” and “Balance Sheet – Allowance for Credit Losses” in this report. - 22 - - TABLE OF CONTENTS Additional market concern over investment securities backed by mortgage loans could create losses in the Company’s investment portfolio. A majority of the Bank’s investment portfolio is comprised of securities where mortgages are the underlying collateral. These securities include agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities and nonagency mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. With the recent national downturn in real estate markets and the rising mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, investors are increasingly concerned about these types of securities, which have negatively impacted the prices of such securities in the marketplace. Continued negative trends in the underlying mortgages could lead to material other-than-temporary impairment charges in the future. The recoverability of our mortgage-backed securities depends on the performance of the underlying loans in the related loan pools. If credit losses on those loans were to exceed the subordinated tranches designed to credit-enhance our securities, we would not receive the full stated interest due on the securities or our full principal balance, or both. The determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a significant estimate and is susceptible to change prospectively. If we were to conclude there were unrealized losses which were other than temporary — which we evaluate by considering estimates of recoverability, as well as the duration and severity of the unrealized loss — we would be required under GAAP to reduce the carrying amount of the security to fair value and record a corresponding charge to earnings, which would also reduce our regulatory capital and negatively impact the Bank’s capital ratios. These negative impacts could significantly impair the Bank’s ability to borrow funds under credit arrangements, as well as various material depository arrangements and relationships. In addition, if the Bank determined it did not have the intent or ability to hold securities to maturity or recovery of temporary impairments, such impairments would be realized through earnings as other-than-temporary impairments. Temporary impairments on available for sale securities also reduce our book value per share as the changes in the value reduce stockholders equity. Although OTS regulations do not proscribe capital ratio levels for the Company per se, additional temporary impairments could reduce capital levels further and below levels management deems prudent. See Notes 3 and 17 to the financial statements. The mortgage loans that the Bank holds are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. The residential and commercial mortgage loans held in the Bank’s loan portfolio are secured by residential and commercial properties and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss of principal and interest. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by residential property typically is dependent primarily upon the income or assets of the borrower. In addition, other factors that affect the risk of our mortgage loan portfolio include: · property location and condition; · competition and demand for comparable properties; · changes in zoning laws for the property or its surrounding area; · environmental contamination at the property; · the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; · changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; · declines in regional or local real estate values; · increases in interest rates and/or real estate tax rates; · changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation and tax laws; and · other events such as acts of God, natural disasters, war, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy, as determined by the bankruptcy court. The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that can have a substantial negative effect on our originally anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. Prospectively, it is possible there will be changes in bankruptcy laws, as well as other rules and regulations that impact delinquent mortgage loan borrowers that could negatively impact the total recovery we realize on mortgage loans. The Bank has invested in loan portfolios, pooled securities and mortgage backed obligations, which may lead to volatility in cash flow and market risk. The Bank’s asset portfolio still contains large portfolios of single-family residential loans acquired through bulk purchases, purchased SBA loans and pools. Our investment portfolio largely consists of mortgage backed securities primarily secured by pools of mortgages on single-family residences. When the Bank acquires such mortgage backed securities and loans, we anticipate that the underlying notes will prepay at a projected rate, thereby generating an expected yield. Prepayment rates generally increase as interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Some of the Bank’s mortgage backed securities and many of our bulk single-family loan purchases and purchased SBA loans and pools were acquired at a premium purchase price. In accordance with applicable accounting rules, we will write-off such premiums when necessary due to loan prepayments with respect to our held for sale loan portfolio and amortize such premiums over the expected lives of our mortgage backed securities and loans held for investment. If the underlying assets that the Bank acquired or that secures our mortgage backed securities prepays more rapidly than anticipated, we would have to write-off or amortize the premium on an accelerated basis, which would adversely affect our profitability. - 23 - - TABLE OF CONTENTS The carrying value of our residential mortgage loan servicing rights and our loan servicing income may decline. Owning residential mortgage loan servicing rights carries interest rate risk because its value and the total amount of servicing fees earned, as well as the amortization of the investment in the servicing rights, fluctuates based on interest rates and loan prepayments. The rate of prepayment of mortgage loans may also be influenced by changing national and regional economic trends as well as the difference between interest rates on existing mortgage loans relative to prevailing mortgage rates. During periods of declining interest rates, many borrowers refinance their mortgage loans. Accordingly, as prepayments of mortgage loans increase, the loan administration fee income related to the residential mortgage loan servicing rights corresponding to a mortgage loan ceases as mortgage loans are prepaid. Consequently, the market value of portfolios of residential mortgage loan servicing rights tends to decrease during periods of declining interest rates, since greater prepayments can be expected, and as a result, the amount of loan administration income received also decreases. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – Balance Sheet – Mortgage Servicing Rights” in this report. Our quarterly results may fluctuate. Our financial results are subject to significant quarterly fluctuations as a result of, among other things, our loan production, opening of new branch locations, development of new products and services, premium amortization caused by prepayments of certain wholesale assets, such as our single-family mortgage loans, guaranteed SBA loans and pooled securities and changes in interest rates. Our operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including general economic conditions, economic conditions in the financial industry, the effects of governmental regulations and regulatory changes, capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of operations, the introduction of new services by us or our competitors and the mix of services sold. In response to a changing competitive environment, we may elect from time to time to make certain pricing, service, or marketing decisions or enter into strategic alliances or make investments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Accordingly, our results of operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any succeeding quarter or for the full fiscal year. If we sell mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights and the underlying loan defaults, we may be liable to the purchaser for unpaid principal and interest on the loan. In the ordinary course of selling mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights and in accordance with industry standards, we make certain representations and warranties to purchasers. If a loan defaults and there has been a breach of representations or warranties and we have no recourse against a third party, we may become liable for the unpaid principal and interest on the defaulted loan. In such a case, we may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the loan. When we purchase mortgage servicing rights or mortgage loans, we also are exposed to liability to the extent that an originator or other seller of the servicing rights is unable to honor its representations and warranties to us. The Company has established a reserve for repurchases that may be required in connection with loans we originated and sold in connection with the sale of our wholesale production platform in 2003. United Western Bank relies on wholesale funding sources for secondary and contingent liquidity sources. United Western Bank utilizes borrowings from the FHLBank system, brokered certificates of deposits and repurchase agreements for secondary and contingent sources of liquidity. Also, from time to time, the Bank utilizes these sources to capitalize on market opportunities to fund investment and loan initiatives. If the Bank were unable to obtain or maintain our access to funding or if adequate funding is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates, it would have to find alternative sources of liquidity, which, if available, would probably be at a higher cost and on terms that do not match the structure of our liabilities as well as the existing wholesale funding sources. In addition, the Company relies on wholesale bank funding for parent company funds. If such funds were not available from the banking sector, securing alternative funding could cause disruption to our business. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – Balance Sheet – Borrowings” and “Balance Sheet – Liquidity” in this report and Note 10 to the financial statements. - 24 - - TABLE OF CONTENTS Curtailment of government guaranteed loan programs could affect our SBA business. The Bank’s SBA business relies on originating, purchasing, pooling and selling government guaranteed loans, in particular those guaranteed by the SBA. From time to time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal limits and cease to guarantee loans for a period of time. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for loans or legislation may discontinue or change the programs. If changes occur, the volumes of loans that qualify for government guarantees could decline, which could in turn reduce the profitability of the Bank’s SBA business. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities. If we foreclose and take title to real estate, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Failure in our automated systems and controls could subject us to increased operating or other liabilities. We depend heavily upon our automated systems and controls for our business and operations. These systems and controls support the evaluation, acquisition, monitoring, collection and administration of our loan and servicing portfolios, depository, general accounting and other management functions, as well as the brokerage functions we perform. The failure of the automated systems, including a failure of data integrity or accuracy, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and deter potential customers. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. A failure of such security measures could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Breaches of our computer and network security systems may result in customer information being compromised and/or identity theft. We maintain personal and financial information about our current, past and potential customers on our computer systems and network infrastructure, such as customer names, addresses, social security numbers, tax identification numbers, bank account numbers, information on loan applications and other sensitive personal and financial information about our customers. In addition, our customers may use the Internet to connect to United Western Bank’s website to retrieve information about their accounts and to conduct online transactions, such as online bill payments. If the security of our encrypted computer systems and network infrastructure responsible for storing our customers' personal and financial data and information or the security of our online banking Internet services is breached, then customer information could be stolen and misused. Such misuse could include the loss of privacy resulting from the sale or disclosure of the information to third parties, credit fraud or other consequences of identity theft to the customer. While we believe that our current encrypted systems meet or exceed all commercial standards for network security, new criminal schemes or capabilities could compromise or breach our systems and network infrastructure. If our security measures fail to protect our customer's information, our existing and future customer base may be adversely affected, we may become subject to customer claims or lawsuits, our public image may be diminished, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations and the regulatory environment. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in supervisory policies or examination procedures of banking regulators, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, the Treasury, the FHLBank System, the United States Congress, the Texas Department of Banking, or other federal or state regulators could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for credit losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Truth-in-Saving Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and Colorado’s deceptive trade practices act. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. If our application for proceeds under the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) is accepted, we will be required to enter into agreements with the Treasury that the Treasury may amend for any reason at any time. We are unable to predict the scope or extent of any future amendments that Treasury may mandate under its CPP documents all or some of which may impose additional regulatory burdens on us. Further, in order to accept CPP proceeds we will be required to enter into a “source of strength” agreement with the OTS that will require us, as and when requested by the OTS, to provide financial and managerial support to United Western Bank. There can be no assurance that we will be able to supply the support requested by the OTS due to limitations on our own financial and managerial resources at the time of such request and our failure to provide the requested support may lead to regulatory enforcement action or actions against us by the OTS. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. See Item 1. “Business – Regulation and Supervision” in this report. - 25 - - TABLE OF CONTENTS Sterling Trust is subject to regulation as a trust company and could be the subject of third party actions. As a Texas chartered trust company, Sterling is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Texas Department of Banking. Sterling’s activities are limited by applicable law generally to acting as a trustee, executor, administrator, guardian or agent for the performance of any lawful act, and to lend and accumulate money when authorized under applicable law. Even though Sterling does not provide investment advice or maintain discretion with regard to the investment choices made by its customers or their representatives, Sterling has been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to claims by third parties regarding breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, or similar claims alleging violation of duty or law. While we believe applicable law supports our view of Sterling’s duties, or lack thereof, in that regard, there can be no assurances that we will prevail in any litigation or other proceeding challenging the matter. Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is subject to our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries. We are a separate legal entity from our subsidiaries and do not have significant operations of our own. We currently depend on our cash, credit facilities and liquidity as well as dividends from our subsidiaries to pay our operating expenses and service our debt. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries will continue to have the capacity to pay us the necessary dividends to satisfy our obligations. In particular, the availability of dividends from United Western Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. Depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, it is possible that the OTS could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. If the Bank or our other subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy our obligations, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations as they become due or pay dividends on our common stock. Significant legal actions could subject the Company to substantial liabilities. The Company is from time to time subject to various legal claims related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including potential supervisory actions by the Company’s regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, the Company may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Business Strategy We may be unable to retain our senior management. The execution of our business strategy relies in significant part on our ability to hire and retain competent, experienced management. As discussed in Item 1 above under “Business – Regulation and Supervision” we have applied for proceeds under the Treasury’s CPP program. If we accept such proceeds we will be subject to as yet unknown and to-be-promulgated Treasury regulations under New Section 111 that will materially restrict the amount and type of compensation we may pay to our senior management as discussed in Item 1. “Business – Regulation and Supervision” above. To the extent the imposition of compensation limits under such regulations and the provisions of New Section 111 cause members of our senior management to seek employment elsewhere, the implementation of our business plan may suffer until such time as we can find adequate replacements for such departing executives. We may be unable to fully implement our community banking business strategy. We are three years into our community bank transition and in order to complete the execution of this strategy we must, among other things: · attract sufficient commercial business and retail deposits; · attract and maintain business banking relationships with businesses in the markets in which we serve; · attract and retain experienced and successful commercial and community bankers; · identify and pursue suitable opportunities for opening new branches in the Colorado Front Range and selected mountain community markets; · maintain adequate regulatory capital and comply with applicable federal and state regulations; and · originate community bank loans and maintain adequate asset quality. Failure to achieve these strategic goals could adversely affect our ability to fully implement our community banking business strategies as well as our overall financial condition and results of operations. - 26 - - TABLE OF CONTENTS We may not be able to effectively manage our proposed growth. Our business strategy contemplates, in part, an increase in our franchise value by expanding into additional communities in the Colorado Front Range and selected mountain communities through a branch network for United Western Bank. To the extent that we undertake additional branch openings, we are likely to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from our expansion efforts for a period of time. We expect to open another branch in the early spring of 2009, we intend to make our loan production office in Aspen, Colorado a full service branch, and we may acquire other sites for future expansion. While we are committed to this strategy, our expansion could significantly burden our infrastructure or we may be unable to manage this growth. In addition, we may enter new lines of business or pursue other strategies intended to complement our community banking business plan implementation. To the extent we undertake such actions, we may experience higher operating costs and these new activities may not be successful. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Our business strategy requires us to attract and to retain management experienced in community banking and financial services who live in the communities we serve. Our ability to retain our existing executive officers, regional presidents, and community banking staff is important to the successful implementation of our strategy. The unexpected loss of key personnel or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future could have an adverse effect on our business. Adverse economic conditions in the Colorado Front Range and our mountain community markets could impair the execution of our business strategy. The success of our business strategy depends primarily on the general economic conditions in our markets because local economic conditions will materially affect commercial real estate, including construction and land development, and residential loans originated, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. If we divest other non-core businesses, it could adversely affect our financial results. We successfully divested several businesses in 2006. If we do elect to divest any of our remaining subsidiaries, the effect of such disposition could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading volume of our stock is low. The low trading volume in our common shares on NASDAQ means that our shares may have less liquidity than other publicly traded companies. We cannot ensure that the volume of trading in our common shares will increase in the future. Furthermore, to the extent shares are concentrated in a relatively small group of holders, a seller could be subject to significant adverse price volatility and price fluctuation. At December 31, 2008, based on filings made by third parties with the Securities and Exchange Commission, we believe that six holders owned 52.7% of our outstanding common stock. This includes shares held by our Chairman of the Board, Guy A. Gibson who owns 1,305,736 shares, or 18.0% of our outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional shares may cause dilution and other risks. Our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred stock in connection with future equity offerings, acquisitions of securities or assets of other companies. Furthermore, there are significant implementation risks associated with the acquisition and integration of another entity into our Company that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The Board may also classify or reclassify any unissued preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares, including the issuance of preferred stock with preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters. In any event, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock could be dilutive to shareholders that do not invest in future offerings. Moreover, to the extent that we issue options, warrants or similar instruments to purchase our common stock in the future and those options, warrants or similar instruments are exercised or we issue restricted stock which subsequently vests, shareholders may experience future dilution. - 27 - - TABLE OF CONTENTS Preferred shares issued pursuant to the Economic Emergency Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended, will impact net income available to holders of our common shares and earnings per common share and the related warrant to be issued to the U.S. Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our Common Shares. As disclosed above, we have applied for an investment by the Treasury under the TARP CPP pursuant to the EESA, as amended. If the Treasury agrees to make such investment in us, the terms of such investment will include the issuance of a senior preferred stock coupled with 15% warrant coverage. See Item 1. “Business – Regulation and Supervision – Economic Emergency Stabilization Act of 2008,” above. While the additional capital we may raise through our participation in the CPP will provide further funding to our business and we believe will improve investor perceptions with regard to our financial position, it will increase our equity and the number of actual and diluted outstanding common shares as well as our preferred stock dividend requirements. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the preferred stock issued to Treasury will reduce the net income available to holders of our common shares and our earnings per common share. The preferred shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common shares will be diluted to the extent the warrant we will be required to issue to the Treasury in conjunction with the sale of the preferred shares is exercised. Because the number of commons shares available to the Treasury under the warrant is not determined until the final closing, which will take place, if at all, after the date of this report, we are unable to currently determine the number of common shares we will have to make available to the Treasury under the warrant. Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the common shares it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any common shares acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. Control by our executive officers and directors may limit the influence of shareholder voting and could discourage an acquisition by third parties. As of March 3, 2008, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 20.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. These shareholders, if acting together, would be able to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of our Board of Directors, the approval of mergers or other transactions or events requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of ownership, among other factors, could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer, which in turn could prevent our shareholders from realizing an acquisition premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We may not have the ability to pay dividends in the future. The Board of Directors adopted a quarterly dividend payment in 2007. While our Board of Directors intends to continue to declare dividends in the future if and to the extent warranted by our financial condition and cash availability, the Board’s determination whether to pay future dividends will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects. We are also prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the scheduled payments on our junior subordinated debentures and trust preferred securities have not been made and will be further prohibited if we participate in the TARP CPP to the extent we do not pay dividends on any senior Preferred Stock issued in connection therewith. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. - 28 - - TABLE OF CONTENTS 