Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements by the Corporation relating to such matters as anticipated operating results, business line results, credit quality expectations, prospects for new lines of business, economic trends (including interest rates) and similar matters. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the Corporation’s management and are subject to risks and uncertainties. While the Corporation believes that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and accordingly, actual results and experience could differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed by the Corporation in its forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results or experience to differ from results discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, regional and national economic conditions; volatility and direction of market interest rates; credit risks of lending activities, governmental legislation and regulation, including changes in accounting regulation or standards; material unforeseen changes in the financial condition or results of operations of the Corporation’s clients; increases in FDIC insurance premiums and assessments; and other risks identified from time-to-time in the Corporation’s other public documents on file with the SEC, including those risks identified in Item 1A of Part 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 27 Table of Contents The Corporation does not undertake, and specifically disclaims, any obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions that may be made to any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statements, except as required by law. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements, and the purpose of this section is to secure the use of the safe harbor provisions. CHANGES IN LOCAL AND NATIONAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS, AS OUR BORROWERS’ ABILITY TO REPAY LOANS AND THE VALUE OF THE COLLATERAL SECURING OUR LOANS DECLINE. Our success depends to a significant extent upon local and national economic conditions, as well as governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings and our capital. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. The vast majority of the loans made by Citizens are to individuals and businesses located in Ohio. As a result, a significant continued decline in the economy in Ohio could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MANAGE INTEREST RATE RISKS, WHICH COULD REDUCE OUR NET INTEREST INCOME. Our results of operations are affected principally by net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, affect interest income and interest expense. We have ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on our profitability. 28 Table of Contents In addition, certain assets and liabilities may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. For example, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind. Some of our assets, such as adjustable rate mortgages, have features that restrict changes in their interest rates, including rate caps. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. Some of these factors include: • inflation; • recession; • unemployment; • money supply; • international disorders; and • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in interest rates may affect the level of voluntary prepayments on the Corporation’s loans and may also affect the level of financing or refinancing by customers. Although the Corporation pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in market interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on its profitability. STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN OUR MARKET AREA MAY REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN DEPOSITS AND ORIGINATE LOANS. We face competition both in originating loans and in attracting deposits. We compete for clients by offering excellent service and competitive rates on our loans and deposit products. The type of institutions we compete with include large regional financial institutions, community banks, thrifts and credit unions operating within the Corporation’s market area. Nontraditional sources of competition for loan and deposit dollars come from captive auto finance companies, mortgage banking companies, internet banks, brokerage companies, insurance companies and direct mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of our competitors offer a broader range of products and services than we offer. In addition, to stay competitive in our markets we may need to adjust the interest rates on our products to match the rates offered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our net interest margin. As a result, our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas while achieving our investment objectives. 29 Table of Contents OUR BUSINESSES HAVE BEEN AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CURRENT CONDITIONS IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS GENERALLY. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility since 2008. As a consequence of the U.S. economic recession, business activity across a wide range of industries has faced serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our businesses: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us • A further impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill • An increase in the number of clients who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. LEGISLATIVE OR REGULATORY CHANGES OR ACTIONS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance fund, not to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us, possibly limiting the services we provide, increasing the ability of non-banks to compete with us or requiring us to change the way we operate. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on the operation of an institution and the ability to determine the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and policies could result in sanctions being imposed by the regulatory agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Recently, Congress and the federal bank regulators have acted on an unprecedented scale in responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the laws enacted by Congress and regulations promulgated by federal bank regulators subject us, and other financial institutions, to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an impact on our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010 and, although it became generally effective in July 2010, many of its provisions have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities. The Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a number of adverse impacts. The levels of capital and liquidity with which the Corporation must operate may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. In addition, the Corporation may be subjected to higher deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC. The Corporation may also be subject to additional regulations under the newly established CFPB which was given broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations. These and other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may place significant additional costs on the Corporation, impede its growth opportunities and place it at a competitive disadvantage. 31 Table of Contents DEPOSIT INSURANCE PREMIUMS MAY INCREASE AND HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THE CORPORATION’S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) maintained by the FDIC to resolve bank failures is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions. The costs of resolving bank failures has increased during the last few years and decreased the DIF. The FDIC collected a special assessment in 2009 to replenish the DIF and also required a prepayment of an estimated amount of future deposit insurance premiums. If the costs of future bank failures increase, the deposit insurance premiums required to be paid by Citizens may also increase. OUR ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES MAY PROVE TO BE INSUFFICIENT TO ABSORB POTENTIAL LOSSES IN OUR LOAN PORTFOLIO. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things, cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed, changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral securing such loan, the credit history of the particular borrower, changes in economic and industry conditions, and the duration of the loan. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, the credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and the performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the allowance for loan losses will be adequate in the future. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. WE DEPEND ON OUR SUBSIDIARY BANK FOR DIVIDENDS. As a financial holding company, our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares is dividends from Citizens. In the event that Citizens is unable to pay dividends, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common shares. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from Citizens could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Citizens is currently permitted to pay dividends. The ability of Citizens to pay dividends is subject to limitations under various laws and regulations and to prudent and sound banking principles. Generally, subject to certain minimum capital requirements, Citizens may not declare a dividend without the approval of the State of Ohio Division of Financial Institutions unless the total of the dividends in a calendar year exceeds the total net profits of the bank for the year combined with the retained profits of the bank for the two preceding years. TRADING IN OUR COMMON SHARES IS VERY LIMITED, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TIME AND THE PRICE AT WHICH YOU CAN SELL YOUR COMMON SHARES. Although the common shares of the Corporation are quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading in the Corporation’s common shares is not active, and the spread between the bid and the ask price is often wide. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. CHANGES IN TAX LAWS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PERFORMANCE We are subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes, including income, excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding and ad valorem taxes. Changes to our taxes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our customers are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local taxes. Changes in taxes paid by our customers may adversely affect their ability to purchase homes or consumer products, which could adversely affect their demand for our loans and deposit products. In addition, such negative effects on our customers could result in defaults on the loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested. 33 Table of Contents WE RELY HEAVILY ON OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM, AND THE UNEXPECTED LOSS OF KEY MANAGEMENT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Our success to date has been strongly influenced by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking in the markets we serve. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams will continue to be important to successful implementation of our strategies. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. WE NEED TO STAY CURRENT ON TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN ORDER TO COMPETE AND MEET CUSTOMER DEMANDS. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS MAY EXPERIENCE AN INTERRUPTION OR SECURITY BREACH. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 34 Table of Contents WE MAY ELECT OR BE COMPELLED TO SEEK ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE, BUT CAPITAL MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE WHEN IT IS NEEDED We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, federal banking agencies have proposed extensive changes to their capital requirements, including raising required amounts and eliminating the inclusion of certain instruments from the calculation of capital. The final form of such regulations and their impact on the Corporation is unknown at this time, but may require us to raise additional capital. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. WE MAY BE THE SUBJECT OF LITIGATION WHICH COULD RESULT IN LEGAL LIABILITY AND DAMAGE TO OUR BUSINESS AND REPUTATION From time to time, we may be subject to claims or legal action from customers, employees or others. Financial institutions like FCBC and Citizens are facing a growing number of significant class actions, including those based on the manner of calculation of interest on loans and the assessment of overdraft fees. Future litigation could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and other agencies regarding our business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Like other large financial institutions, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to our business. WE DEPEND UPON THE ACCURACY AND COMPLETENESS OF INFORMATION ABOUT CUSTOMERS AND OTHER PARTIES In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and other parties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or that are materially misleading, or on other financial information that is inaccurate or incomplete. 35 Table of Contents THE EFFECT OF CHANGES TO THE HEALTHCARE LAWS IN THE UNITED STATES MAY INCREASE THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO CHOOSE TO PARTICIPATE IN OUR HEALTHCARE PLANS, WHICH MAY SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE OUR HEALTHCARE COSTS AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS We offer healthcare coverage to our eligible employees with part of the cost subsidized by the Corporation. With recent changes to the healthcare laws in the United States becoming effective in 2014, more of our employees may choose to participate in our health insurance plans, which could increase our costs for such coverage and material adversely impact our costs of operations. THE EXPIRATION OF UNLIMITED FDIC INSURANCE COVERAGE OF NON-INTEREST BEARING TRANSACTION ACCOUNTS EFFECTIVE DECEMBER 31, 2012, MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR LIQUIDITY AND COST OF FUNDS The Dodd-Frank Act provided for unlimited FDIC insurance coverage of non-interest bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2012. The end of such insurance may cause us to lose certain large deposits or may result in our needing to pledge additional securities to secure public funds deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. In order to ensure adequate liquidity, we may need to raise rates we pay on deposits, resulting in a decrease in profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 