Item 1A. Risk Factors From time to time, information provided by us, statements made by our employees or information included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Form 10-K) may contain statements that are not historical facts, so-called “forward-looking statements,” which involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “plans,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “believe” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or state other forward-looking information. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. Our actual future results may differ significantly from those stated in any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Each of these factors, and others, are discussed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We are using our available cash and cash equivalents each quarter to fund our operations, investments and financing activities. We have incurred significant losses in prior periods. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future and we may incur losses and negative cash flows in future periods. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; 13 • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce, market and support new products and technologies on a timely basis; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; • intellectual property disputes; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our customers and distributors and changes in our customers’ and distributors’ inventory management practices; • shifts in our product mix and the effect of maturing products; • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; and • significant warranty claims, including those not covered by our suppliers. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate because of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, then the market price of our common stock could decline. Some of the factors that affect our quarterly and annual results, but which are difficult to control or predict, are: Our net revenues may decrease. Due to current economic conditions and slowdowns in purchases of VLSI semiconductor devices, it has become increasingly difficult for us to predict the purchasing activities of our customers and we expect that our net revenues may decrease. Our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules, and customer orders typically can be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to our customers. Because we do not have substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Future fluctuations to our operating results may also be caused by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our foundries, we may order inventory and materials in advance of anticipated customer demand, which might result in excess inventory levels if the expected orders fail to materialize. As a result, we cannot predict the timing and amount of shipments to our customers, and any significant downturn in customer demand for our products would reduce our quarterly and annual operating results. We continue to have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we have approximately $3.8 million in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding in the form of our 5.45% Convertible Notes due September 30, 2011 (2011 Notes). In addition to this indebtedness, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our 2011 Notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; 14 • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligations under the 2011 Notes. The terms of our 2011 Notes permit the holders thereof to voluntarily convert their notes at any time into a certain number of shares of our common stock. We may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations. If our cash, cash equivalents and operating cash flows are inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the 2011 Notes or our other obligations, we would be in default under their respective terms. This would permit the holders of the 2011 Notes and our other obligations to accelerate their respective maturities and could also cause defaults under any future indebtedness we may incur. Any such default or cross default would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we cannot be sure that we would be able to repay amounts due in respect of the 2011 Notes if payment of those notes were to be accelerated following the occurrence of an event of default as defined in the 2011 Notes indenture. We may seek to reduce our indebtedness or fund our loss operations by issuing equity securities, thereby causing dilution of our stockholders’ ownership interests. We may from time to time seek to exchange our 2011 Notes for shares of our common stock or other securities. These exchanges may take different forms, including exchange offers or privately negotiated transactions. As a result of shares of our common stock or other securities being issued upon such conversion or pursuant to such exchanges, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution of their ownership interest. The terms of the 2011 Notes include voluntary conversion provisions upon which shares of our common stock would be issued. As a result of these shares of our common stock being issued, our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest. If we seek to secure additional financing we may not be able to do so. If we are able to secure additional financing our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest or we may be subject to limitations on our operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and capital expenditures, we may need to raise additional funds. However, events in the future may require us to seek additional capital and, if so required, that capital may not be available on terms favorable or acceptable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. On October 21, 2009 we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-162609) (the “Shelf Registration Statement”) which was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 28, 2009, to sell up to $40,000,000 of our securities. During 2010 we issued shares for proceeds to the Company in an amount of $1,809,000 worth of common stock under the Shelf registration statement. Accordingly, we have a value of $38,191,000 of shares of our common stock, which could still be issued under this arrangement. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be limited in our success, as the terms of the 2011 Notes restrict our ability to issue debt that is senior to or pari passu with the 2011 Notes, without the consent of the holders of the 2011 Notes. Our stock price is volatile. The market for securities for communication semiconductor companies, including our Company, has been highly volatile. The daily closing price of our common stock has fluctuated between a low of $1.52 and a high of $15.36 (share price is reflective of the November 23, 2009 1 for 8 reverse stock split) during the period from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2010. It is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate widely in the future. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: • responses to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; 15 • current market conditions in our served markets; and • changes in earnings estimates by analysts. We may have to further restructure our business. We may have to make further restructuring changes if we do not sustain the current level of quarterly revenues. Our restructurings could result in management distractions, operational disruptions, and other difficulties. Over the past several years, we have initiated several restructuring activities in an effort to reduce operating costs. Our most recent restructuring was announced on February 8, 2011. Employees whose positions were eliminated in connection with these restructuring activities may seek employment with our customers or competitors. Although each of our employees is required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot guarantee that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities and that of our restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous restructuring plans. Also, if we continue to reduce our workforce it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to new growth opportunities. We anticipate that shipments of our products to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenues. Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our total net revenues in any particular period. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, shipments to our top five customers, including sales to distributors, accounted for approximately 57% and 63% of our total net revenues, respectively. We expect that a limited number of customers may account for a substantial portion of our total net revenues for the foreseeable future. Some of the following may reduce our total net revenues or adversely affect our business: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • development by one or more of our significant customers of other sources of supply for current or future products; • loss of one or more of our current customers or a disruption in our sales and distribution channels; and • failure of one or more of our significant customers to make timely payment of our invoices. We cannot be certain that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will return to the levels of previous periods or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. We have no long-term volume purchase commitments from any of our significant customers. The cyclical nature of the communication semiconductor industry affects our business. Communication service providers, internet service providers, regional operating companies and inter-exchange carriers continue to closely monitor their capital expenditures. Spending on voice-only equipment remains slow while spending on equipment providing the efficient transport of data services on existing infrastructure appears to be slowly recovering. Demand for new, high bandwidth applications such as video conferencing, broadband audio and telephone is placing an increased burden on existing public network infrastructure. We cannot be certain that the market for our products will not decline in the future. Because of our lack of diversity in geographic sources of revenues, economic factors specific to certain countries may adversely affect our business and operating results. During 2010, a substantial amount of our revenue was from, China, Japan, Korea, Israel and other foreign countries. We expect revenues in 2011 will be substantial concentrated in foreign markets. All of our sales have been historically denominated in U.S. dollars and major fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially affect our customers’ demand, thereby causing them to reduce their orders, which could adversely affect our operating results. While part of our strategy is to diversify the geographic sources of our revenues, failure to further penetrate other markets could harm our business and results of operations and subject us to increased currency risk. 16 If foreign exchange rates fluctuate significantly, our profitability may decline. We are exposed to foreign currency rate fluctuations because we incur a significant portion of our operating expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars (mainly Indian rupees, Israeli shekels and Euros). The U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly in 2010 and this trend may continue. Our international business operations expose us to a variety of business risks. Foreign markets are a significant part of our net product revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 foreign shipments accounted for approximately 75% and 70%, respectively of our total net product and services revenues. We expect foreign markets to continue to account for a significant percentage of our total net product revenues. A significant portion of our total net product revenues will, therefore, be subject to risks associated with foreign markets, including the following: • unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and policy changes affecting the telecommunications and data communications markets; • changes in tariffs; • exchange rates, currency controls and other barriers; • political and economic instability; • risk of terrorism; • difficulties in accounts receivable collection; • difficulties in managing distributors and representatives; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas; • natural disasters; • seasonality of customer buying patterns; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Although substantially all of our total net product revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars, the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign currencies also may reduce our total net revenues from foreign customers. A substantial amount of our costs are denominated in Israeli shekels and the Indian rupees. To the extent that we further expand our international operations or change our pricing practices to denominate prices in foreign currencies, we will expose our margins to increased risks of currency fluctuations. Our net product revenues depend on the success of our customers’ products, and our design wins do not necessarily generate revenues in a timely fashion. Our customers generally incorporate our new products into their products or systems at the design stage. However, customer decisions to use our products (design wins), which can often require significant expenditures by us without any assurance of success, often precede the generation of production revenues, if any, by a year or more. Some customer projects are canceled, and thus will not generate revenues for our products. In addition, even after we achieve a design win, a customer may require further design changes. Implementing these design changes can require significant expenditures of time and expense by us in the development and pre-production process. Moreover, the value of any design win will largely depend upon the commercial success of the customer’s product and on the extent to which the design of the customer’s systems accommodates components manufactured by our competitors. We cannot ensure that we will continue to achieve design wins in customer products that achieve market acceptance. Further, most revenue-generating design wins take several years to translate into meaningful revenues. We must successfully transition to new process technologies to remain competitive. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop products that utilize new process technologies. Semiconductor design and process methodologies are subject to rapid technological change and require large expenditures for research and development. We currently manufacture our products using 65, 130 and 180 nanometer complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) processes. We continuously evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. Other companies in the industry have experienced difficulty in transitioning to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered increased costs, reduced yields or delays in product deliveries. We believe that transitioning our products to smaller geometry process technologies will be important for us to remain competitive. We cannot be certain that we can make such a transition successfully, if at all, without delay or inefficiencies. 17 Our success depends on the timely development of new products, and we face risks of product development delays. Our success depends upon our ability to develop new devices and software for existing and new markets. The development of these new devices and software is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development of new products. Successful product development and introduction depends on a number of factors, including the following: • accurate new product definition; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • availability of foundry capacity; • achievement of manufacturing yields; and • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products. Our success also depends upon our ability to do the following: • build products to applicable standards or customer specifications; • develop products that meet customer requirements; • adjust to changing market conditions as quickly and cost-effectively as necessary to compete successfully; • introduce new products that achieve market acceptance; and • develop reliable software to meet our customers’ application needs in a timely fashion. In addition, we cannot ensure that the systems manufactured by our customers will be introduced in a timely manner or that such systems will achieve market acceptance. We sell a range of products that each has a different gross profit. Our total gross profits will be adversely affected if most of our shipments are of products with low gross profits. We currently sell more than 70 products. Some of our products have a high gross profit while others do not. If our customers decide to buy more of our products with low gross profits and fewer of our products with high gross profits, our total gross profits could be adversely affected. We plan our mix of products based on our internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. The price of our products tends to decrease over the lives of our products. Historically, average selling prices in the communication semiconductor industry have decreased over the life of a product, and, as a result, the average selling prices of our products may decrease in the future. Decreases in the price of our products would adversely affect our operating results. As global competition increases our customers are increasingly more focused on price. We may have to decrease our prices to remain competitive in some situations, which may negatively impact our gross margins. Our success depends on the rate of growth of the global communications infrastructure. We derive most of our net revenues from products for telecommunications, data and video communications applications. These markets are characterized by the following: • susceptibility to seasonality of customer buying patterns; • subject to general business cycles; • intense competition; • rapid technological change; and • short product life cycles. We anticipate that these markets will continue to experience significant volatility in the near future. 18 Our products must successfully include industry standards to remain competitive. Products for telecommunications and data communications applications are based on industry standards, which are continually evolving. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products based on emerging industry standards, which could render our existing products unmarketable or obsolete. If the telecommunications or data communications markets evolve to new standards, we cannot be certain that we will be able to design and manufacture new products successfully that address the needs of our customers and include the new standards or that such new products will meet with substantial market acceptance. Our strategic direction has changed. The company has gone from primarily providing VLSI infrastructure products to more customer premise VOIP based products and licensing IP cores. As our business model changes there can be no assurances that the move to these new product lines will produce acceptable results. Moreover, any other future changes to our business may not prove successful in the short or long term due to a variety of factors, including competition, customer acceptance, demand for our products and other factors. This may cause a material negative impact on our financial results. Our business has been and may continue to be significantly impacted by the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, and the current uncertainty in the outlook for the global economy makes it more likely that our actual results will differ materially from expectations. Global credit and financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and continued uncertainty about economic stability. Despite signs of improvement, there can be no assurance that there will not be renewed deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The continued or further tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. The volatility in the credit markets has severely diminished liquidity and capital availability. The licensing component of our business strategy increases business risk and volatility. Part of our business strategy is to license IP through agreements with companies whereby companies incorporate our IP into their respective technologies that address certain markets. There can be no assurance that additional companies will be interested in licensing our technology on commercially favorable terms or at all. We also cannot ensure that companies who license our technology will introduce and sell products incorporating our technology, will accurately report royalties owed to us, will pay agreed upon royalties, will honor agreed upon market restrictions, will not infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property and will maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information. The IP agreements are complex and depend upon many factors including completion of milestones, allocation of values to delivered items and customer acceptances. Many of these factors require significant judgments. Licensing revenue could fluctuate significantly from period to period because it is heavily dependent on a few key deals being completed in a particular period, the timing of which is difficult to predict and may not match our expectations. Because of its high margin content, the licensing mix of our revenue can have a disproportionate impact on gross profit and profitability. Also, generating revenue from these arrangements is a lengthy and complex process that may last beyond the period in which efforts begin and once an agreement is in place, the timing of revenue recognition may be dependent on customer acceptance of deliverables, achievement of milestones, our ability to track and report progress on contracts, customer commercialization of the licensed technology and other factors. Licensing that occurs in connection with actual or contemplated litigation is subject to risk that the adversarial nature of the transaction will induce non-compliance or non-payment. The accounting rules associated with recognizing revenue from these transactions are increasingly complex and subject to interpretation. Due to these factors, the amount of license revenue recognized in any period may differ significantly from our expectations. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. We have historically agreed to indemnify our customers for certain costs and damages of intellectual property rights in circumstances where one of our products is the factor creating the customer’s infringement exposure. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers. In some instances, our products are designed for use in devices manufactured by our customers that comply with international standards. These international standards are often covered by patent rights held by third parties, which may include our competitors. The costs of obtaining licenses from holders of patent rights essential to such international standards could be high. The cost of not obtaining such licenses could also be high if a holder of such patent rights brings a claim for patent infringement. We are not aware of any claimed violations on our part. However, we cannot assure you that claims for indemnification will not be made or that if made, such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 19 We continue to expense our new product process development costs when incurred. In the past, we have incurred significant new product and process development costs because our policy is to expense these costs, including tooling, fabrication and pre-production expenses, at the time that they are incurred. We may continue to incur these types of expenses in the future. These additional expenses will have a material and adverse effect on our operating results in future periods. We face intense competition in the semiconductor market. The communication semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by the following: • rapid technological change; • subject to general business cycles; • price erosion; • limited access to fabrication capacity; • unforeseen manufacturing yield problems; and • heightened international competition in many markets. These factors are likely to result in pricing pressures on our products, thus potentially affecting our operating results. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving area of high-performance integrated circuit technology depends on factors both within and outside our control, including: • success in designing and subcontracting the manufacture of new products that implement new technologies; • protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws; • product quality; • reliability; • price; • efficiency of production; • failure to find alternative manufacturing sources to produce VLSI devices with acceptable manufacturing yields; • the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their products; • success of competitors’ products; and • general economic conditions. The telecommunications and data communications industries, which are our primary target markets, are intensely competitive. A number of our customers have internal semiconductor design or manufacturing capability with which we also compete in addition to our other competitors. Any failure by us to compete successfully in these target markets, particularly in the communications markets, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on outside fabrication facilities, and our business could be hurt if our relationships with our foundry suppliers are damaged. We do not own or operate a VLSI circuit fabrication facility. A few foundries currently supply us with all of our semiconductor device requirements. While we have had good relations with these foundries, we cannot be certain that we will be able to renew or maintain contracts with them or negotiate new contracts to replace those that expire. In addition, we cannot be certain that renewed or new contracts will contain terms as favorable as our current terms. There are other significant risks associated with our reliance on outside foundries, including the following: • the lack of assured semiconductor wafer supply and control over delivery schedules; • the unavailability of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies; and • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs. 20 Reliance on third-party fabrication facilities limits our ability to control the manufacturing process. Manufacturing integrated circuits is a highly complex and technology-intensive process. We work closely with our foundries to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, our foundries occasionally experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Such reduced manufacturing yields have at times reduced our operating results. A manufacturing disruption at one or more of our outside foundries, including, without limitation, those that may result from natural disasters, accidents, acts of terrorism or political instability or other natural occurrences, could impact production for an extended period of time. Our dependence on a small number of fabrication facilities exposes us to risks of interruptions in deliveries of semiconductor devices. We purchase semiconductor devices from outside foundries pursuant to purchase orders, and we do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity at any of our foundries. We provide the foundries with forecasts of our production requirements. However, the ability of each foundry to provide wafers to us is limited by the foundry’s available capacity and the availability of raw materials. Therefore, our foundry suppliers could choose to prioritize capacity and raw materials for other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our foundries will allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. We have been, and expect in the future to be, particularly dependent upon a limited number of foundries for our VLSI device requirements. In 2010, approximately 80% of our wafer requirements were manufactured by one foundry. The time required to qualify alternative manufacturing sources for existing or new products could be substantial and we might not be able to find alternative manufacturing sources able to produce our VLSI devices with acceptable manufacturing yields. As a result, we expect that we could experience substantial delays or interruptions in the shipment of our products if there was a sudden increase in demand or if our foundry suppliers were to cease operations or limit our capacity. We are subject to risks arising from our use of subcontractors to assemble our products. Contract assembly houses in Asia assemble all of our semiconductor products. Raw material shortages, natural disasters, political and social instability, service disruptions, currency fluctuations, or other circumstances in the region could force us to seek additional or alternative sources of supply or assembly. This could lead to supply constraints or product delivery delays. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights, or the costs of protecting these rights, may harm our ability to compete. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and licenses and to preserve other intellectual property rights covering our products and development and testing tools. To that end, we have obtained certain domestic and foreign patents and intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive. We cannot ensure the following: • that patents will be issued from currently pending or future applications; • that our existing patents or any new patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us; • that foreign intellectual property laws will protect our foreign intellectual property rights; and • that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us. Intellectual property rights are uncertain and adjudication of such rights involves complex legal and factual questions. We may be unknowingly infringing on the proprietary rights of others and may be liable for that infringement, which could result in significant liability for us. We occasionally receive correspondence from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be forced to either seek a license to the intellectual property rights of others or alter our products so that they no longer infringe the proprietary rights of others. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. We are responsible for any patent litigation costs. If we were to become involved in a dispute regarding intellectual property, whether ours or that of another company, we may have to participate in legal proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office or in the United States or foreign courts to determine any or all of the following issues: patent validity, patent infringement, patent ownership or inventorship. These types of proceedings may be costly and time consuming for us, even if we eventually prevail. If we do not prevail, we might be forced to pay significant damages, obtain a license, if available, or stop making a certain product. From time to time we may prosecute patent litigation against others and as part of such litigation, other parties may allege that our patents are not infringed, are invalid and are unenforceable. 21 We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and confidentiality provisions in agreements with employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. Such parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to adequately enforce our rights against these parties. The loss of key management could affect our ability to run our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other qualified personnel. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense in the semiconductor industry. We may also have a particularly hard time attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor performance and during this period following our most recent restructuring. Our business could be harmed if we fail to integrate future acquisitions adequately. During the past five years, we have acquired three companies, one based in the United States and two in Israel. Our management must devote time and resources to the integration of the operations of any future acquisitions. The process of integrating research and development initiatives, computer and accounting systems and other aspects of the operations of any future acquisitions presents a significant challenge to our management. This is compounded by the challenge of simultaneously managing a larger and more geographically dispersed entity. Future acquisitions could present a number of additional difficulties of integration, including: • difficulties in integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and cultures; • difficulties in defining and executing a comprehensive product strategy; and • difficulties in minimizing the loss of key employees of the acquired company. If we delay integrating or fail to integrate operations or experience other unforeseen difficulties, the integration process may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and financial and other resources. Our failure to address these difficulties adequately could harm our business or financial results, and we could fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. We have in the past, as a result of industry conditions, later discontinued or abandoned certain product lines acquired through prior acquisitions. We may engage in acquisitions that may harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders and cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. We may pursue acquisitions from time to time that could provide new technologies, skills, products or service offerings. Future acquisitions by us may involve the following: • use of significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; and • incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definitive lives. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • unanticipated expenses and operational disruptions while acquiring and integrating new acquisitions. From time to time, we have engaged in discussions with third parties concerning potential acquisitions of product lines, technologies and businesses. We currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any such acquisition. If such an acquisition does occur, we cannot be certain that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially adversely affected or that we will realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 22 We could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which if it occurs, will distract our management and could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us. In the past, securities and class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition or dilution to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may discourage takeover offers and may limit the price investors would be willing to pay for our common stock. Delaware corporate law contains, and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and shareholder rights plan contain, certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock (preferred stock which our Board of Directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval) with rights senior to those of common stock; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and • dilute stockholders who acquire more than 15% of our common stock. Natural disasters or acts of terrorism affecting our locations, or those of our suppliers, in the United States or internationally may negatively impact our business. We operate our businesses in the United States and internationally, including the operation of a design center in India, and sales, design and engineering operations in Israel. Some of the countries in which we operate or in which our customers are located have in the past been subject to terrorist acts and could continue to be subject to acts of terrorism. In addition, some of these areas may be subject to natural disasters, such as earthquakes or floods. If our facilities, or those of our suppliers or customers, are affected by a natural disaster or terrorist act, our employees could be injured and those facilities damaged, which could lead to loss of skill sets and affect the development or fabrication of our products, which could lead to lower short and long-term revenues. In addition, natural disasters or terrorist acts in the areas in which we operate or in which our customers or suppliers operate could lead to delays or loss of business opportunities, as well as changes in security and operations at those locations, which could increase our operating costs. Our ability to sublease excess office space may adversely affect our future cash outflows. We have outstanding operating lease commitments of approximately $22.7 million, payable over the next seven years. Some of these commitments are for space that is not being utilized and, for which, we recorded restructuring charges in prior periods. We are in the process of trying to sublease additional excess space but it is unlikely that any sublease income generated will offset the entire future commitment. As of December 31, 2010, we have sublease agreements totaling approximately $8.8 million to rent portions of our excess facilities over the next four years. We currently believe that we can fund these lease commitments in the future; however, there can be no assurances that we will not be required to seek additional capital or provide additional guarantees or collateral on these obligations. 23 Of the office space being leased in our Shelton, Connecticut location, as of December 31, 2010 approximately 124,435 square feet is considered excess, the majority of which we have taken restructuring charges for in prior years. Substantially all of this space is currently being sublet, but not for the full term that we are committed to under our lease agreements. If we are unable to re-lease this space, at similar rates, our future cash outflows would be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 24 