Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially harmed. Investors should also refer to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the notes thereto. We May in the Future make Acquisitions, which Involve Numerous Risks Our objective continues to be to redeploy our assets and actively pursue new business opportunities. As such, we will be subject to numerous risks, including the following: • The benefits of any potential business opportunity not materializing as planned or not materializing within the time periods or to the extent anticipated; • The possibility that the Company will pay more than the value it derives from any potential business opportunity; • The assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of any potential business opportunity; • Risks of entering markets in which the Company has no or limited direct prior experience; and Any business opportunity we pursue will involve a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses for us. There is generally going to be no publicly available information about the companies which we intend to pursue, and we rely significantly on the diligence of our employees and agents to obtain information. If we are unable to identify all material information about these companies, among other factors, we may fail to receive the value we had expected. In addition, these businesses may have short operating histories, narrow product lines, small market shares and less experienced management than their competition and may be more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions, loss of key personnel, or economic downturns. Depending upon the ultimate structure of any such transaction, we may be subject to the risk that such a company may make a business decision that does not prove to be profitable for the Company. Our search for new business opportunities also may be affected by current and future market conditions. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets could have an effect on the valuations of companies and on the potential for liquidity events involving such companies. 5 The Business Opportunity We Pursue Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Our Stock Price. Even if we locate a business opportunity, the closing of any such transaction will be subject to certain conditions, including us obtaining shareholder approval. We cannot provide assurance that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that we will be able to successfully consummate such transaction. If we do not successfully locate a suitable business opportunity: • the market price of our common stock may decline; • we will continue to incur costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to us being a public company and our ongoing search for a suitable business opportunity; and • we may experience a negative reaction if we do not locate a suitable business opportunity, or if the Board of Directors does recommend a proposal to our shareholders which is not approved, or if such transaction is approved by our shareholders and does not produce anticipated results. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. Any Business Opportunity We Pursue May Result in a Change of Control and Our Current Management May not Have Any Power to Influence Us After the Closing of any such Transaction Any transaction that we engage may result in the owners and management of such company having actual or effective operating control of us. The owners and management of such company will have the right to appoint their own officers and directors, and our current management will have no ability to influence future business decisions. Currently, There is No Agreement for Any Potential Transaction and No Minimum Guidelines Have Been Established The Company has no current arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a transaction with any specific entity. We cannot guarantee that the Company will be successful in identifying and evaluating any suitable business opportunities or in concluding a transaction. We have not selected any particular industry or specific business within an industry as a potential target company. The Company has not established any criteria, including a specific length of operating history or a specified level of earnings, assets, and/or net worth, which it will require a company to have achieved, or without which the Company would not consider a transaction with such business entity. Accordingly, the Company may enter into a transaction with a business entity having no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. We cannot guarantee you that the Company will be able to negotiate a transaction on terms favorable to the Company. Any Business Opportunity We Pursue Will Possibly Dilute the Value of the Company’s Securities. Any transaction we pursue will involve the issuance of a significant number of additional shares of the Company's common stock. Depending upon the value of the business, the per share value of the Company's common stock may increase or decrease, perhaps significantly. Any transaction involving the issuance of the Company's common stock may result in shareholders of a target company obtaining a controlling interest in the Company. 6 Any Transaction We Pursue May Result in Unfavorable Taxation to the Company Federal and state tax consequences will, in all likelihood, be major considerations in any business opportunity we may pursue. Currently, such transactions may be structured so as to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, pursuant to various federal and state tax provisions. The Company intends to structure any transaction so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to the Company. However, there can be no assurance that such business opportunity will meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization or that the parties will obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes which may have an adverse effect on both parties to the transaction and their shareholders. Certain of the Company’s Charter Provisions and Delaware Law May Prevent or Deter Potential Business Opportunities The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and restated (the “Certificate of Incorporation”), Bylaws (“Bylaws”) Shareholders Rights Agreement, and certain provisions of Delaware law contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing us from pursuing a potential business opportunity proposal that a stockholder might consider favorable. The anti-takeover effect of these provisions may also have an adverse effect on the public trading price of the Company’s common stock. Section 404 and Other Recently Enacted Regulatory Changes Have Caused, and Will Continue to Cause the Company to Incur Increased Costs and Operating Expenses and May Make it More Difficult for the Company to Successfully Pursue New Business Opportunities The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and recently enacted rules of the SEC have caused the Company to incur significant increased costs as it implements and responds to new requirements. In particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. This ongoing process of reviewing, documenting and testing the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting has resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, a significant strain on the Company’s management, information systems and resources. Furthermore, achieving and maintaining compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and other new rules and regulations has required the Company to hire additional personnel and has and will continue to require it to use additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services. Any new business opportunity pursued by the Company will also put a significant strain on its management, information systems and resources, which will require implementation of any changes necessary to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. Changes in, or Interpretations of, Accounting Rules and Regulations Could Result in Unfavorable Accounting Charges The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on the Company’s reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. 7 Our Common Stock Price May be Volatile, Which Could Result in Substantial Losses for Stockholders The market price of shares of the Company’s common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and may be significantly affected by factors such as the following: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in its operating results; • Changes in the economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad; • Terrorist attacks, war or the threat of terrorist attacks and war; • Developments in ongoing litigation; • Failure to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • Price and volume fluctuations in the stock market; Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 