ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The occurrence of any of the events discussed below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The occurrence of any of the events discussed below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows: We have a history of operating losses and we do not expect to become profitable in the near future. We are a specialty healthcare company with a limited operating history. We are not profitable and have incurred losses since our inception. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of pharmaceutical products for the foreseeable future and we have generated limited revenue from our ophthalmic instrumentation business. We have not yet submitted any pharmaceutical products for marketing approval or clearance by regulatory authorities and we do not currently have rights to any pharmaceutical product candidates that have been approved for marketing. We continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations and, to date, we have devoted most of our financial resources to research and development, including our pre-clinical development activities and clinical trials. We expect to continue to incur losses from our operations for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase as we continue our research activities and conduct development of, and seek regulatory approvals and clearances for, our product candidates, and prepare for and begin to commercialize any approved or cleared products. If our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval or clearance, or if our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. In addition, if we are required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, to perform studies in addition to those we currently anticipate, our expenses will increase beyond expectations and the timing of any potential product approval may be delayed. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our technologies are in an early stage of development and are unproven. We are engaged in the research and development of pharmaceutical products, drug delivery technologies, and diagnostic systems and instruments for the treatment and prevention of ophthalmic diseases. The effectiveness of our technologies is not well-known in, or accepted generally by, the clinical medical community. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully employ our technologies as therapeutic, diagnostic, or preventative solutions for any ophthalmic disease. Our failure to establish the efficacy or safety of our technologies would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we have a limited operating history. Our operations to date have been primarily limited to organizing and staffing our company, developing our technology, and undertaking pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates. We have not yet obtained regulatory approvals for any of our pharmaceutical product candidates. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. Our product research and development activities may not result in commercially viable products. Most of our product candidates are in the very early stages of development and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug and medical device product development. We will likely be required to complete and undertake significant additional clinical trials to demonstrate to the FDA that our product candidates are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities or for their intended uses, or are substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to an existing, lawfully marketed non-premarket approved device. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that often take years to complete. Failure can occur at any stage of the process, and successful early positive results do not ensure that the entire clinical trial or later clinical trials will be successful. Product candidates in clinical-stage trials may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits despite early promising results. If our research and development activities do not result in commercially viable products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents We may not continue to develop or be able to successfully commercialize our most advanced product candidate, bevasiranib, and our failure to commercialize bevasiranib, or the experience of significant delays in doing so, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, and financial condition. On March 6, 2009, following the recommendation of the Independent Data Monitoring Committee, or the IDMC, we determined to terminate the ongoing Phase III clinical trial of bevasiranib. Review of the data by the IDMC indicated that the trial as structured was unlikely to meet its primary end point. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of bevasiranib. We intend to conduct a complete evaluation of the clinical data in an effort to determine the factors causing this outcome. Our willingness to continue to develop bevasiranib will depend on our understanding of the trial data and the efficacy of the underlying technology. Our inability to timely assess and understand with certainty the factors causing the unfavorable results of the Phase III trial, our decision not to further commercialize bevasiranib or our ultimate inability to successfully commercialize bevasiranib could adversely affect our future business, operating results and financial condition. The results of pre-clinical trials and previous clinical trials may not be predictive of future results, and our current and planned clinical trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other non-United States regulatory authorities. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trial experience should not be relied upon as evidence that later-stage or large-scale clinical trials will succeed. We will be required to demonstrate with substantial evidence through well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates either (i) are safe and effective for use in a diverse population of their intended uses or (ii) with respect to Class I or Class II devices only, are substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to devices that are already marketed under section 510(k) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Success in early clinical trials does not mean that future clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. Further, our drug candidates may not be approved or cleared even if they achieve their primary endpoints in Phase III clinical trials or registration trials; nor may our device candidates be approved or cleared, as the case may be, even though clinical or other data are, in our view, adequate to support a device approval or clearance. The FDA or other non-United States regulatory authorities may disagree with our trial design and our interpretation of data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. In addition, any of these regulatory authorities may change requirements for the approval or clearance of a product candidate even after reviewing and providing comment on a protocol for a pivotal clinical trial that has the potential to result in FDA approval. Any of these regulatory authorities may also approve or clear a product candidate for fewer or more limited indications or uses than we request or may grant approval or clearance contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials. The FDA or other non-United States regulatory authorities may not approve the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. The results of our clinical trials may show that our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects, which could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials, resulting in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA and other Non-U.S. regulatory authorities. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the Government Accounting Office, medical professionals, and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products, and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA to clinical trials. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to terminate clinical trials before completion, or require longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense and a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought. We will require substantial additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We are advancing and intend to continue to advance multiple product candidates through clinical and pre-clinical development. As a result of our entry into a Stock Purchase Agreement with the Frost Gamma Investments Trust in February 2009, pursuant to which the trust agreed to invest $20 million into the Company, we believe we have the cash and cash equivalents on hand sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for operations and debt service for the next 12 months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong or subject to change, and we may be required to use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the amounts of increased capital outlays and operating expenditures associated with our current and anticipated clinical trials. Our future capital requirements will depend on a number of factors, including the continued progress of our research and development of product candidates, the timing and outcome of clinical trials and regulatory approvals, the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending, and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, the status of competitive products, the availability of financing, and our success in developing markets for our product candidates. 24 Table of Contents We will need to raise substantial additional capital to engage in and continue our clinical and pre-clinical development, and commercialization activities. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or strategic collaborations. Our ability to obtain additional capital may depend on prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. The current disruptions in the U.S. and global financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit, as well as our ability to raise money in the capital markets. Current economic conditions have been, and continue to be volatile and, in recent months, the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. Continued instability in these market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to fund and grow our business. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and financial condition. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional significant dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. We may seek to access the public or private capital markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our future product candidates, our commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address the ophthalmic diseases and conditions our products are designed to diagnose, treat, or prevent. We are currently developing therapeutic, diagnostic, and preventative products that will compete with other drugs, therapies, and medical devices that currently exist or are being developed. Products we may develop in the future are also likely to face competition from other drugs, therapies, and medical devices. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, and drug development resources than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances for drugs or medical devices. These companies also have significantly greater research and marketing capabilities than we do. Some of the pharmaceutical companies we expect to compete with include Genentech, Allergan, Alcon Laboratories, Regeneron, QLT, Pfizer, Alnylam, and Bausch & Lomb. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutions may become active in ophthalmic disease research. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater capital resources, development resources, including personnel and technology, clinical trial experience, regulatory experience, expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights, manufacturing and distribution experience, and sales and marketing experience. The development of other promising drugs for the treatment of Dry AMD, which in certain patients is the precursor to Wet AMD, could materially adversely affect the prospects for treatments for Wet AMD. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: • the results of our clinical trials; • our ability to recruit and enroll patients for our clinical trials; • the efficacy, safety and reliability of our product candidates; • the speed at which we develop our product candidates; • our ability to commercialize and market any of our product candidates that may receive regulatory approval or clearance; • our ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical trials; • the timing and scope of regulatory approvals or clearances; 25 Table of Contents • appropriate coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement under private and governmental health insurance plans, including Medicare; • our ability to protect intellectual property rights related to our products; • our ability to have our partners manufacture and sell commercial quantities of any approved products to the market; and • acceptance of future product candidates by physicians and other health care providers. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer, easier to use or less expensive than our future product candidates, if any, or that reach the market sooner than our future product candidates, if any, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, both the biopharmaceutical and medical device industries are characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or product candidates obsolete or less competitive. Our product development activities could be delayed or stopped. Following the recommendation of the Independent Data Monitoring Committee, or the IDMC, we recently terminated the ongoing Phase III clinical trial of bevasiranib. We do not know whether our other current or planned clinical trials will be completed on schedule, or at all. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that our planned clinical trials will begin on time or at all. The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • a limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with the particular types of ophthalmic disease required for enrollment in our clinical trials or that otherwise meet the protocol’s inclusion criteria and do not meet any of the exclusion criteria; • a limited number of, and competition for, suitable sites to conduct our clinical trials; • delay or failure to obtain FDA approval or agreement to commence a clinical trial; • delay or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of the product candidate for our clinical trials; • requirements to provide the drugs or medical devices required in our clinical trial protocols or clinical trials at no cost or cost, which may require significant expenditures that we are unable or unwilling to make; • delay or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites or investigators; and • delay or failure to obtain institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct or renew a clinical trial at a prospective site. 26 Table of Contents The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; • failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy evidenced during clinical trials; • termination of our clinical trials by one or more clinical trial sites; • inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; and • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment. Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, the IRB for any given site, or us. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes with appropriate regulatory authorities. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing, or successful completion of a clinical trial. Any failure or significant delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for our product candidates could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the commercial prospects for our product candidates. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, marketing, and distribution of drug products or medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities, which regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of a new drug application, or NDA, a clearance letter under the premarket notification process, or 510(k) process, or an approval of a pre-market approval, or PMA, from the FDA. We have not submitted an NDA or PMA application or premarket notification, nor have we received marketing approval or clearance for any of our pharmaceutical product candidates. Obtaining approval of an NDA or PMA can be a lengthy, expensive, and uncertain process. With respect to medical devices, while the FDA reviews and clears a premarket notification in as little as three months, there is no guarantee that our products will qualify for this more expeditious regulatory process, which is reserved for Class I and II devices, nor is there any assurance that even if a device is reviewed under the 510(k) process that the FDA will review it expeditiously or determine that the device is substantially equivalent to a lawfully marketed non-PMA device. If the FDA fails to make this finding, then we cannot market the device. In lieu of acting on a premarket notification, the FDA may seek additional information or additional data which would further delay our ability to market the product. Furthermore, we are not permitted to make changes to a device approved through the PMA or 510(k) which affects the safety or efficacy of the device without first submitting a supplement application to the PMA and obtaining FDA approval or cleared premarket notification for that supplement. In some cases, the FDA may require clinical trials to support a supplement application. In addition, failure to comply with FDA, non-United States regulatory authorities, or other applicable United States and non-United States regulatory requirements may, either before or after product approval or clearance, if any, subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including, but not limited to the following: • restrictions on the products, manufacturers, or manufacturing process; • adverse inspectional observations (Form 483), warning letters, or non-warning letters incorporating inspectional observations; • civil and criminal penalties; • injunctions; 27 Table of Contents • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals or clearances; • product seizures, detentions, or import bans; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; • total or partial suspension of production; • imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and • refusal to approve or clear pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, applications or pre-market notifications. Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement, PMA, PMA supplement or clearance pursuant to a pre-market notification is not guaranteed, and the approval or clearance process, as the case may be, is expensive and may, especially in the case of an NDA or PMA application, take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the drug and medical device approval and clearance process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. The number of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval or clearance varies depending on the drug or medical device candidate, the disease or condition that the drug or medical device candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug or medical device candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval or clearance of a drug or medical device candidate for many reasons, including: • a drug candidate may not be deemed safe or effective; • a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a lawfully marketed non-PMA device, in the case of a premarket notification. • FDA officials may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; • the FDA might not approve our or our third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or • the FDA may change its approval or clearance policies or adopt new regulations. The Company may, at some future date, seek approval of one or more drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, Section 505(b)(2) which permits a manufacturer to submit an NDA for an existing drug compound for intended uses that have already been approved by the FDA, but with certain different characteristics, such as a different route of administration. Section 505(b)(2) allows a company to reference the clinical data already collected by the NDA of the drug supplemented by clinical trial results that address the change (e.g., route of administration). The Company is not presently involved in clinical trials for a Section 505(b)(2) drug or the submission of an NDA for such a drug, but could be in the future. If the Company were to submit an NDA under that section, the Company could be sued for patent infringement by the pharmaceutical company that owns the patent on the existing approved NDA drug. Such a suit would automatically preclude the FDA from processing our NDA for 30 months and possibly longer. Defending such a suit would be costly. If we were to lose the litigation, we could be precluded from marketing the product until the NDA holder’s patent expires. Such an adverse result would interfere without strategic plans and would therefore have adverse financial implications for the Company. Our product candidates may have undesirable side effects and cause our approved drugs to be taken off the market. If a product candidate receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by such products: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, specific warnings, a contraindication, or field alerts to physicians and pharmacies; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product and require us to take our approved drug off the market; 28 Table of Contents • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials, or change the labeling of the product; • we may have limitations on how we promote our drugs; • sales of products may decrease significantly; • we may be subject to litigation or product liability claims; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase our commercialization costs and expenses, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Our inability to address quality control issues in a timely manner could delay the production and sale of our instrumentation products. We previously received a warning letter in connection with a FDA inspection of the OTI facility in Toronto, Canada on March 25, 2008 noting several deficiencies in OTI’s, quality control systems relating to certain products. Immediately upon receipt of the warning letter, we began to take corrective action to address the FDA’s concerns and to assure the quality of OTI’s products. On September 18, 2008, we received a letter from the FDA stating that our responses to the warning letter indicated that we may have made adequate corrections to the deficiencies identified in the warning letter, and a re-inspection by the FDA of the OTI facility in Toronto would be necessary. During January 2009, the FDA re-inspected the Toronto facility, and we did not receive a citation of deficiency. We are committed to providing high quality products to our customers, and we plan to meet this commitment by working diligently to continue implementing updated and improved quality systems and concepts throughout our organization. Although we believe we have properly addressed each of the deficiencies cited by the FDA, we cannot assure you that we will not have quality control issues in the future, which may result in future warning letters and citations from the FDA. If we receive any warning letters from the FDA in the future, there can be no assurances regarding the length of time or cost it will take us to resolve such quality issues to our satisfaction and to the satisfaction of the FDA. If our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the FDA, we may have to devote additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the FDA may take further regulatory actions against us including, but not limited to, assessing civil monetary penalties or imposing a consent decree on us, which could result in further regulatory constraints, including the governance of our quality system by a third party. Our inability to resolve these issues or the taking of further regulatory action by the FDA may weaken our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a medical device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with its Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA. In addition, most international jurisdictions have adopted regulatory approval and periodic renewal requirements for medical devices, and we must comply with these requirements in order to market our products in these jurisdictions. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. Further, some emerging markets rely on the FDA’s Certificate for Foreign Government (CFG) in lieu of their own regulatory approval requirements. Our, or our manufacturers’ failure to meet QSR or ISO requirements could delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances, recalls or other consequences, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and our financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Even if we obtain marketing approvals or clearances for our product candidates, the terms of approvals and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our product candidates, which could materially impair our ability to generate anticipated revenues. Once regulatory approval has been granted to market a product, the approved or cleared product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. Any approved or cleared product may only be promoted for its indicated uses. In addition, if the FDA or other non-United States regulatory authorities approve any of our product candidates for marketing, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, and promotion for the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We and the manufacturers of our products are also required to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practicing, or cGMP regulations, or the FDA’s QSR regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Moreover, device manufacturers are required to report adverse events by filing Medical Device Reports with the FDA, which reports are publicly available. Further, regulatory agencies must approve manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspection. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers, or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. Furthermore, any limitation on indicated uses for a product candidate or our ability to manufacture and promote a product candidate could significantly and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities may change their policies and additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay marketing approval or clearance of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we would likely not be permitted to market our future product candidates and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would materially impair our ability to generate anticipated revenues. Even if we receive regulatory approval or clearance to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our products. Even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval or clearance, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and/or the medical community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: • timing of market introduction of competitive products; • the safety and efficacy of our product compared to other products; • prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; • strength of marketing and distribution support; • price of our products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; • availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payors; • potential product liability claims; • limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling; and • changes in the standard of care for the targeted indications for any of our product candidates, which could reduce the marketing impact of any claims that we could make following FDA approval. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and health care payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. If our products do not gain market acceptance, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents If our future product candidates are not covered and eligible for reimbursement from government and third party payors, we may not be able to generate significant revenue or achieve or sustain profitability. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved or cleared drugs or medical devices is uncertain, and failure of our pharmaceutical products and procedures using our medical devices to be adequately covered by insurance and eligible for adequate reimbursement could limit our ability to market any future product candidates we may develop and decrease our ability to generate revenue from any of our existing and future product candidates that may be approved or cleared. There is significant uncertainty related to the third-party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved or cleared drugs or medical devices. Many medical devices are not directly covered by insurance; instead, the procedure using the device is subject to a coverage determination by the insurer. The commercial success of our existing and future product candidates in both domestic and international markets will depend in part on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, including government payors, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, and other third-party payors. The government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both insurance coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs or devices and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our product candidates. These payors may conclude that our product candidates are less safe, less effective, or less cost-effective than existing or later-introduced products. These payors may also conclude that the overall cost of the procedure using one of our devices exceeds the overall cost of the competing procedure using another type of device, and third-party payors may not approve our product candidates for insurance coverage and adequate reimbursement. The failure to obtain coverage and adequate or any reimbursement for our product candidates, or health care cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our product candidates, may reduce any future product revenue. Even though a drug (not administered by a physician) may be approved by the FDA, this does not mean that a Prescription Drug Plan, or PDP, a private insurer operating under Medicare part D, will list that drug on its formulary or will set a reimbursement level. PDPs are not required to make every FDA-approved drug available on their formularies. If our drug products are not listed on sufficient number of PDP formularies or if the PDPs’ levels of reimbursement are inadequate, the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial, development, and other resources in order to successfully pursue our research, development, and commercialization efforts for our product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified management and pre-clinical and clinical personnel. The loss of the services or support of any of our senior management, particularly Dr. Phillip Frost, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of any of our employees. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our research and development activities and build a sales and marketing function. We have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our research, development, and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. In addition, these advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with ours. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical, medical device, and other similar businesses. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy, which will adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements in a timely fashion or at all and our business may be harmed as a result. 31 Table of Contents As we evolve from a company primarily involved in development to a company also involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. As we advance our product candidates through clinical trials, research, and development we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with such third parties, as well as additional collaborators and suppliers. Maintaining these relationships and managing our future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management. We must be able to: manage our development efforts effectively; manage our clinical trials effectively; hire, train and integrate additional management, development, administrative and sales and marketing personnel; improve our managerial, development, operational and finance systems; implement and manage an effective marketing strategy; and expand our facilities, all of which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Furthermore, we may acquire additional businesses, products or product candidates that complement or augment our existing business. Integrating any newly acquired business or product could be expensive and time-consuming. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business or product successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively and our ability to integrate any acquired businesses. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to acquire and develop other products or product candidates at all or on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to diversify or grow our business. We intend to continue to rely on acquisitions and in-licensing as the source of our products and product candidates for development and commercialization. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select, and acquire pharmaceutical products, drug delivery technologies, and medical device product candidates. Proposing, negotiating, and implementing an economically viable product acquisition or license is a lengthy and complex process. We compete for partnering arrangements and license agreements with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, and academic research institutions. Our competitors may have stronger relationships with third parties with whom we are interested in collaborating and/or may have more established histories of developing and commercializing products. As a result, our competitors may have a competitive advantage in entering into partnering arrangements with such third parties. In addition, even if we find promising product candidates, and generate interest in a partnering or strategic arrangement to acquire such product candidates, we may not be able to acquire rights to additional product candidates or approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. We expect that any product candidate to which we acquire rights will require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval or clearance by the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities. All product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical or medical device product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. Even if the product candidates are approved or cleared for marketing, we cannot be sure that they would be capable of economically feasible production or commercial success. If we fail to acquire or develop other product candidates that are capable of economically feasible production and commercial success, our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We have no experience or capability manufacturing large clinical-scale or commercial-scale products and have no pharmaceutical manufacturing facility; we therefore rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our pharmaceutical product candidates. If our manufacturing partners are unable to produce our products in the amounts that we require, we may not be able to establish a contract and obtain a sufficient alternative supply from another supplier on a timely basis and in the quantities we require. We expect to continue to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. 32 Table of Contents Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Any of our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities to ensure strict compliance with QSR regulations for devices or cGMPs for drugs, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding standards relating to matters such as testing, quality control, and documentation procedures. If our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with QSR or cGMPs, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns, or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval or clearance of our product candidates or commercialization of our future product candidates, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. In addition, our dependence on a third party for manufacturing may adversely affect our future profit margins. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before it can begin manufacturing our product candidates. Such approval would result in additional non-clinical testing and compliance inspections. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. We currently have limited marketing staff, no pharmaceutical sales or distribution capabilities and have only recently commenced developing medical device sales capabilities in the United States. If we are unable to develop our pharmaceutical sales and marketing and distribution capability and our medical device sales and marketing capabilities in the United States on our own or through collaborations with marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing our pharmaceutical product candidates or our medical device product candidates in the United States. We currently have no pharmaceutical marketing, sales or distribution capabilities. We have only recently commenced developing medical device sales capabilities in the United States. If our pharmaceutical product candidates are approved, we intend to establish our sales and marketing organization with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities to commercialize our product candidates, which will be expensive and time-consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of any of our internal sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of our products. With respect to our existing and future pharmaceutical product candidates, we may choose to collaborate with third parties that have direct sales forces and established distribution systems, either to augment our own sales force and distribution systems or in lieu of our own sales force and distribution systems. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly marketed or sold our products. In addition, any revenue we receive will depend in whole or in part upon the efforts of such third parties, which may not be successful and are generally not within our control. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our existing and future product candidates. If we are not successful in commercializing our existing and future product candidates, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. Independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations that we engage to conduct our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely. We depend on independent clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials. Contract research organizations may also assist us in the collection and analysis of data. These investigators and contract research organizations will not be our employees, and we will not be able to control, other than by contract, the amount of resources, including time, that they devote to products that we develop. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient resources to the development of product candidates or clinical trials, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the marketing approval or clearance and commercialization of any products that we develop. Further, the FDA requires that we comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity, and confidentiality of trial subjects are protected. If our independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations fail to comply with good clinical practice, the results of our clinical trials could be called into question and the clinical development of our product candidates could be delayed. Failure of clinical investigators or contract research organizations to meet their obligations to us or comply with federal regulations and good clinical practice procedures could adversely affect the clinical development of our product candidates and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents The success of our business may be dependent on the actions of our collaborative partners. We expect to enter into collaborative arrangements with established multinational pharmaceutical and medical device companies, which will finance or otherwise assist in the development, manufacture and marketing of products incorporating our technology. We anticipate deriving some revenues from research and development fees, license fees, milestone payments, and royalties from collaborative partners. Our prospects, therefore, may depend to some extent upon our ability to attract and retain collaborative partners and to develop technologies and products that meet the requirements of prospective collaborative partners. In addition, our collaborative partners may have the right to abandon research projects and terminate applicable agreements, including funding obligations, prior to or upon the expiration of the agreed-upon research terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in establishing collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, that collaborative partners will not terminate funding before completion of projects, that our collaborative arrangements will result in successful product commercialization, or that we will derive any revenues from such arrangements. To the extent that we are unable to develop and maintain collaborative arrangements, we would need substantial additional capital to undertake research, development, and commercialization activities on our own. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, our business could be materially harmed. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or license under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some patents required for us to commercialize our product candidates. Because certain United States patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date for which nonpublication has been requested, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we or our third-party collaborators may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability, or infringement of the third-party patent or otherwise circumvent the third-party patent. Our strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. In addition, we will rely on third-party collaborators to file patent applications relating to proprietary technology that we develop jointly during certain collaborations. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming. If our present or future collaborators fail to file and prosecute all necessary and desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. Despite our efforts and the efforts of our collaborators to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable, or circumvented. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. In addition, court decisions may introduce uncertainty in the enforceability or scope of patents owned by biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and medical device companies. Any challenge to, finding of unenforceability or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the United States Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, or medical device patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, the enforceability or scope of our owned or licensed patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, including the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Illinois, the University of Florida Research Foundation, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Redox Pharmaceuticals, and Winston Laboratories. 34 Table of Contents While we believe that our patent rights are enforceable, we cannot assure you that any patents that have issued, that may issue, or that may be licensed to us will be enforceable or valid, or will not expire prior to the commercialization of our product candidates, thus allowing others to more effectively compete with us. Therefore, any patents that we own or license may not adequately protect our product candidates or our future products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of trade secrets, know-how, and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we will seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also generally provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that our employees, consultants, or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We will rely heavily on licenses from third parties. Failure to comply with the provisions of these licenses could result in the loss of our rights under the license agreements. Many of the patents and patent applications in our patent portfolio are not owned by us, but are licensed from third parties. For example, we rely on technology licensed from the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Illinois, the University of Florida Research Foundation, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Winston Laboratories, and Redox Pharmaceuticals. Such license agreements give us rights for the commercial exploitation of the patents resulting from the respective patent applications, subject to certain provisions of the license agreements. Failure to comply with these provisions could result in the loss of our rights under these license agreements. Our inability to rely on these patents and patent applications, which are the basis of our technology, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We license patent rights to certain of our technology from third-party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. We have obtained licenses from, among others, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Illinois, the University of Florida Research Foundation, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Redox Pharmaceuticals, and Winston Laboratories, that are necessary or useful for our business. In addition, we intend to enter into additional licenses of third-party intellectual property in the future. Our success will depend in part on our ability or the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain, and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property and, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights in our field. We or our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications which are licensed to us. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, we or our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we have licensed, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents Some jurisdictions may require us, or those from whom we license patents, to grant licenses to third parties. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, most countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief from an infringement and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. If we or those from who we license patents are required to issue compulsory licenses, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products, or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability or infringement of the third-party patent, or circumvent the third-party patent, which would be costly and would require significant time and attention of our management. Third parties may have or obtain valid and enforceable patents or proprietary rights that could block us from developing products using our technology. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, RNAi is a relatively new scientific technology that has generated many different patent applications from organizations and individuals seeking to obtain important patents in the field. These applications claim many different methods, compositions, and processes relating to the discovery, development, and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics. Because the field is so new, very few of these patent applications have been fully processed by government patent offices around the world, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about which patents will issue, when, to whom, and with what claims. It is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference and opposition proceedings in various patent offices, relating to patent rights in RNAi technology. Others may attempt to invalidate our intellectual property rights. Even if our rights are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could impact our intellectual property rights. Any challenge to our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts. Third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others. In addition, a third-party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. Furthermore, in connection with our third-party license agreements, we generally have agreed to indemnify the licensor for costs incurred in connection with litigation relating to intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. Our involvement in patent litigation and other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. Adverse results in material litigation matters or governmental inquiries could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial condition. We may from time to time become subject in the ordinary course of business to material legal action related to, among other things, intellectual property disputes, professional liability, contractual and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers requesting comment and information on allegations of billing irregularities and other matters that are brought to their attention through billing audits, third parties or other sources. The health care industry is subject to substantial federal and state government regulation and audit. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as damage to the Company’s reputation with customers, which could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position. Medicare legislation and future legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives, at both the federal and state government levels, to change the healthcare system in ways that, if approved, could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, extended Medicare, effective January 1, 2006, to cover most outpatient prescription drugs that are not administered by physicians and modified, effective January 1, 2004, the methodology used by Medicare to reimburse for those drugs administered by physicians. Our business could be harmed by the MMA, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private payors will pay, and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. To the extent that our products are deemed to be durable medical equipment, they may be subject to distribution under the new Competitive Acquisition regulations, also part of MMA, and this could adversely affect the amount that patients or medical providers can seek from payors. Non-durable medical equipment devices used in surgical procedures are normally paid directly by the hospital or health care provider and not reimbursed separately by third-party payors. As a result, these types of devices are subject to intense price competition that can place a small manufacturer at a competitive disadvantage. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any cost containment measures or other health care system reforms that are adopted could have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize our existing and future product candidates successfully. RISKS RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Failure to obtain regulatory approval outside the United States will prevent us from marketing our product candidates abroad. We intend to market certain of our existing and future product candidates in non-United States markets. In order to market our existing and future product candidates in the European Union and many other non-United States jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have had limited interactions with non-United States regulatory authorities, the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval or clearance. Approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more non-United States regulatory authority does not ensure approval by other regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. The non-United States regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval or clearance. We may not obtain non-United States regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for non-United States regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our existing and future product candidates in any market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Non-United States governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We intend to seek approval to market certain of our existing and future product candidates in both the United States and in non-United States jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more non-United States jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our product. In some countries, particularly countries of the European Union, each of which has developed its own rules and regulations, pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug or medical device candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our existing and future product candidates to other available products. If reimbursement of our future product candidates is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may become subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally, in part due to a number of our suppliers being located outside the United States. Accordingly, our prospects, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed by a variety of factors, including: • difficulties in compliance with non-United States laws and regulations; • changes in non-United States regulations and customs; • changes in non-United States currency exchange rates and currency controls; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic environment; • trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, or other restrictive actions by United States or non-United States governments; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and • difficulties associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including differing labor relations. RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances that we have made or may make in the future may use significant resources, result in disruptions to our business or distractions of our management, may not proceed as planned, and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We intend to continue to expand our business through the acquisition of, investments in and strategic alliances with companies, technologies, products, and services. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances involve a number of special problems and risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations, and personnel with the existing businesses; • diversion of management’s attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the businesses; • strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; • potential costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits; • potential issuance of securities to equity holders of the company being acquired with rights that are superior to the rights of holders of our common stock, or which may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders; 38 Table of Contents • the need to incur additional debt or use cash; and • the requirement to record potentially significant additional future operating costs for the amortization of intangible assets. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses we acquire may not produce the revenues, earnings, or business synergies that we anticipated, and acquired products, services, or technologies might not perform as we expected. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues than we had anticipated. We may not be able to successfully address these problems and we cannot assure you that the acquisitions will be successfully identified and completed or that, if acquisitions are completed, the acquired businesses, products, services, or technologies will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other harmful effects on our business. Any of these risks can be greater if an acquisition is large relative to our size. Failure to manage effectively our growth through acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Funding may not be available for us to continue to make acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances in order to grow our business. We have made and anticipate that we may continue to make acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances with complementary businesses, technologies, products and services to expand our business. Our growth plans rely, in part, on the successful completion of future acquisitions. At any particular time, we may need to raise substantial additional capital or to issue additional equity to finance such acquisitions, investments, and strategic alliances. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all, or obtain the stockholder approvals necessary to issue additional equity to finance such acquisitions, investments, and strategic alliances. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining the financing, our business would be adversely impacted. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • results of our clinical trials and other development efforts; • developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; • variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our common stock is covered by analysts; • developments in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and medical device industry; • the results of product liability or intellectual property lawsuits; • future issuances of common stock or other securities, including debt; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments, or strategic alliances; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and medical device companies in particular, has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. 39 Table of Contents Trading of our common stock is limited and restrictions imposed by securities regulation and certain lockup agreements may further reduce our trading, making it difficult for our stockholders to sell shares. Our common stock began trading on the American Stock Exchange, now known as the NYSE Alternext U.S. Exchange, in June 2007. To date, the liquidity of our common stock is limited, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and changes in security analyst and media coverage, if at all. A substantial percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock (including outstanding shares of our preferred stock on an as converted basis) are restricted securities and/or are subject to lockup agreements which limit sales for a period of time. These factors may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and ask prices for our common stock. In addition, without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his investment in our common stock. Further, the limited liquidity could be an indication that the trading price is not reflective of the actual fair market value of our common stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. Future sales of our common stock could reduce our stock price. Some or all of the “restricted” shares of our common stock issued to former stockholders of Froptix and Acuity in connection with the acquisition or held by other of our stockholders may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to an effective registration statement, or after April 2, 2008, pursuant to Rule 144. In addition, as described herein, a substantial number of our shares of common stock are subject to lockup agreements expiring on March 27, 2009, provided that (i) one third of the shares subject to the lockup became exempt from lockup restrictions beginning March 27, 2008, (ii) one third of the shares subject to lockup became exempt from lockup restrictions beginning September 27, 2008, and (iii) the restrictions on the remaining shares subject to lockup shall lapse on March 27, 2009. We have also issued or agreed to issue a substantial number of securities in private placement transactions with two year lockup restrictions expiring in each of December 2009, August 2010, and March 2011. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market pursuant to Rule 144 or after the lockup agreements lapse, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a majority of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that you do not consider to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As of February 10, 2009, our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders, and affiliated entities beneficially owned, in the aggregate a majority of our outstanding voting securities. Pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement with dated February 23, 2009, Frost Gamma Investments Trust (the “Gamma Trust”), of which Phillip Frost, M.D., the Company’s Chairman and CEO, is the sole trustee, agreed to acquire 20,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock, following which the Gamma Trust will be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 53% of the Company’s common stock. As a result, Dr. Frost acting alone or with other members of management, would have the ability to control the election of our Board of Directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation, the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our results of operation could be harmed. 40 Table of Contents Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. We continuously monitor our existing internal control over financial reporting systems to confirm that they are compliant with Section 404, and we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This process may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. If, at any time, it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and reevaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as increased independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal control from our independent auditors. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. There have been changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and rules promulgated by the NYSE Alternext U.S. Exchange, the other national securities exchanges and the NASDAQ. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our board members, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could be subject to liability under applicable laws or our reputation may be harmed, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 