Risk Factors Risks that could adversely affect eXegenics’ financial condition, or its future business plans, strategies or opportunities, or its future operations are outlined below. Any of the risks in this Report or in eXegenics’ other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) could materially adversely affect eXegenics’ financial condition, or its future business plans, strategies or opportunities, or its future operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to eXegenics or that are currently believed to be immaterial also may adversely affect eXegenics' financial condition, or its future business plans, strategies or opportunities, or its future operations. eXegenics may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses. The Business Opportunities Search Committee of the Board of Directors of eXegenics is charged with, among other things, identifying and evaluating business opportunities. If eXegenics were to pursue one or more strategic acquisitions, its failure to consummate or, if consummated, to successfully integrate and/or realize contemplated revenues, could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. eXegenics pursuit of business opportunities may subject it to numerous risks, including the following: · the benefits of any potential business opportunity not materializing as planned or not materializing within the time periods or to the extent anticipated; · the possibility that eXegenics will pay more than the value it derives from any potential business opportunity; · difficulties in the integration and assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of any acquired business; · the diversion of management’s attention from other potential business opportunities; 5 · the availability of favorable acquisition financing; · the potential loss of key employees and/or clients of any acquired business; · the assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers; and · risks of entering markets in which eXegenics has no or limited direct prior experience. Business opportunities pursued by eXegenics may involve a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses to eXegenics. There is generally going to be no publicly available information about the companies that eXegenics may evaluate and pursue, and eXegenics’ management will rely significantly on the diligence of eXegenics’ employees, agents and advisors to obtain and analyze information. If eXegenics is not able to identify all material information about these companies, among other factors, eXegenics may fail to receive the value it had anticipated. In addition, these businesses may have short operating histories, narrow product lines, small market shares and less experienced management than their competition and may be more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions, loss of key personnel, or economic downturns. Further, acquisitions may require the use of significant amounts of cash, resulting in the inability to use those funds for other business opportunities or purposes. Acquisitions using our capital stock could have a dilutive effect, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. No minimum guidelines have been established with respect to any particular industry that eXegenics may enter, or criteria with respect to any particular business that eXegenics may engage in a transaction, accordingly, we cannot provide you with risks that may be specific to a particular industry, transaction or business. The Business Opportunities Search Committee has evaluated numerous potential acquisition or merger candidates for eXegenics, which included companies in a diverse group of industries, including medical devices, entertainment, banking and software development. Further, eXegenics has not established any criteria, including a specific length of operating history or a specified level of earnings, assets, and/or net worth, which it will require a company to have achieved, or without which eXegenics would not consider a transaction with such business entity. eXegenics may enter into a transaction with an entity engaged in a highly regulated business or in a business with unique operating risks; or, eXegenics may enter into a transaction with an entity having: no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. Our inability to advise you of particular risks associated with an industry or business opportunities, for example, environmental or health risks, competitive risks, or regulatory risks, and how they might impact our financial condition or future business opportunities or prospects is, itself, a risk. eXegenics future success will depend, in part, in its ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. Competition for highly skilled employees exists, and we may be unable to attract, integrate or retain the proper numbers of sufficiently qualified personnel that we may need in the future. To the extent that we are unable to hire and retain skilled employees in the future, our financial condition and our future business opportunities and operations will likely suffer. Transactions may result in unfavorable tax treatment to eXegenics. Federal and state tax consequences will, in all likelihood, be major considerations in any business opportunity we may pursue. Currently, such transactions may be structured so as to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, pursuant to various federal and state tax provisions. While eXegenics intends to structure any transaction so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to the Company, there can be no assurance that such business opportunity will meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization or that the parties will obtain the desired tax-free treatment. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes which may have an adverse effect on both parties to the transaction and their shareholders. 6 Certain of eXegenics’ charter provisions and Delaware law may prevent or deter potential business opportunities. eXegenics certificate of incorporation, as amended, bylaws, stockholders rights agreement, and certain provisions of Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing eXegenics from pursuing potential business opportunities that a stockholder might consider favorable. The anti-takeover effect of these provisions may also have an adverse effect on the public trading price of eXegenics common stock. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Since the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC’s implementing regulations of the same (collectively, the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), companies that have securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including eXegenics, are subject to enhanced and more transparent corporate governance standards, disclosure requirements and accounting and financial reporting requirements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, among other things, (i) requires • a public company, with securities listed on an exchange (eXegenics securities are not currently listed on an exchange, but are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board), to establish and maintain audit committees, comprised solely of independent directors, which committee must be empowered to, among other things, engage, supervise and discharge the company’s auditors; • that a public company’s financial statements be certified by the principal executive and principal financial officers of such company; • increased and quicker public disclosure - real time -obligations by the company and its directors and executive officers, including disclosure of off-balance sheet transactions and accelerated reporting of transactions in company stock; (ii) prohibits personal loans to company directors and officers, except certain loans made by insured financial institutions on nonpreferential terms and in compliance with other bank regulatory requirements; and (iii) creates or provides for various new and increased civil and criminal penalties for violations of the securities laws. Achieving and maintaining compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the SEC’s implementing rules and regulations increases eXegenics use of outside legal and accounting advisors and, accordingly, increases eXegenics’ expenses related to such advisors, as well as increased time spent by eXegenics’ management in maintaining and evaluating continued compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC rules and regulations. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could result in our loss of such rights. Prior to the termination of its research and development programs, eXegenics’ policy was to protect its intellectual property and other proprietary rights, including its technology. Subsequent to termination of its drug discovery operations, eXegenics has not been diligent in maintaining those protections and, as a result, some or all of our rights in our intellectual property, including our proprietary technology and other proprietary interests, may be subject to challenge, and we may lose our interests in or rights to certain intellectual property, including our proprietary technologies, that later turn out to be important to the Company in the future. eXegenics common stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders The market price of shares of eXegenics common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and may be significantly affected by factors such as the following: · announcements we make concerning new business development activities; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and future operations and operating results; · changes in the economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad; · terrorist attacks, war or the threat of terrorist attacks and war; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; · our common stock being quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board; and · price and volume fluctuations in the stock market. 7 A significant portion of our voting power is concentrated and, as a result, our other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters may be limited. The Frost Group owns approximately 41% of our voting stock. Accordingly, the Frost Group will have significant influence over the management and affairs of eXegenics and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of eXegenics or its assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control limits the ability of our other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, The Frost Group may take actions that eXegenics other stockholders do not view as beneficial. We may have conflicts of interest with The Frost Group. Conflicts of interest may arise between The Frost Group and us in a number of areas, including business combinations. The Frost Group has investments in a variety of companies and may present one or more of these companies as business opportunities to us. Three of the members of The Frost Group are members of, and represent a majority of, our board of directors. We cannot guarantee that any conflicts that may arise will be resolved in a matter that is favorable to us. Additionally, even if we do resolve such conflicts, the resolution may be less favorable to us than it would be if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. We have a large number of authorized but unissued shares of common stock that may be issued in connection with business combinations or otherwise without stockholder approval. As previously referenced, our Business Opportunities Search Committee, is charged with identifying and evaluating business opportunities. We are authorized to issue 225,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 36,550,369 shares are currently issued and outstanding and 1,568,240 shares are reserved for issuance upon conversion of our Series A preferred stock and upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants. In addition, we are authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 4,000,000 shares are designated Series A preferred stock, 983,240 of which are issued and outstanding, and an additional 30,000 shares are designated Series B preferred stock, none of which are issued and outstanding. Our authorized, but unissued and unreserved shares of capital stock are available to us for issuance from time to time for acquisitions or to raise capital. Whether or not any future issuance of shares would be submitted for stockholder vote depends upon whether stockholder approval would be required by applicable law and/or applicable stock exchange rules. The eXegenics board of directors intends to only seek approval of the eXegenics stockholders with respect to any future issuances of shares of eXegenics capital stock to the extent required by applicable law and/or applicable stock exchange rules. Any future issuances of shares of our capital stock would likely dilute the percentage ownership of the stockholders in eXegenics. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 