ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business and our products. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors besides those listed here could adversely affect us. Investors should carefully consider all of such risk factors before making an investment decision with respect to our Common Stock. Risks Relating to Our Industry Demand response, as sponsored by grid operators and utilities, is regulated by state and federal commissions. Changes in regulations could limit our ability to deliver our products to electrical grids. Lack of change in some regions could restrict the growth of demand response. Demand response is regulated by FERC, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and State Public Utility Commissions. Recently regulators at the federal and state level have been supportive of facilitating the demand response business as an effective way to improve reliability and reduce costs on the electrical grids. That could change in response to changes in the political environment. 8 Index Regional grids that have active wholesale markets could revert to vertical control by utilities limiting our revenue opportunities. State regulators could restrict or eliminate wholesale markets for electricity that are the basis for priced based energy demand response limiting our revenue opportunities. Very high prices or lack of generating capacity to match demand could create political pressure, as happened in California in 2000, to return to vertical control of generation thru delivery to utilities. This may reduce the revenue opportunity for demand response. Regional grids establish local operating rules for demand response. Regional grids can and do set rules that limit the product and revenue opportunity for demand response. The rules in regional grids can and do restrict and limit demand response. Grid operating rules are established thru committee processes and may be subject to FERC approval. Demand response providers are members of the regional grids and participate on committees, but other members such as electrical generators and utilities are much larger and may use their market power to set rules that limit demand response. All regional grids have rules that guide demand response revenue opportunities. In 2008 PJM Interconnection introduced new rules that changed the revenue opportunities, and instituted a screening process that may limit some participants’ ability or desire to enter the electricity markets. Rule changes could evolve that restrict or eliminate current demand response products and revenue. Increased infrastructure investment and or lower fuel prices could reduce the cost of electricity, limiting demand response revenue. Demand response revenue is dependent on wholesale electric prices for electricity during periods of high usage. Prices are particularly high when system generating capacity operates near its limits. Although increased investment in electric facilities generally increases costs, in some scenarios, increased investment in generating and transmission infrastructure could reduce prices and limit revenue. Decreases in fuel costs, such as natural gas, could reduce the price of electricity during peak daily usage and reduce the revenue opportunity of price-based demand response. Technological advances could reduce the cost of electricity, limiting our revenue. Technological advances could increase electrical generating capacity, reduce transmission losses and reduce the price of electricity. In each case demand response revenue opportunities would be reduced. Failure of other providers of demand response to provide valuable service to the electrical grids may limit the entire demand response market thru unfavorable regulation and or operating rules on particular grids. Failure or perception of failure to meet expectations could induce operating rules that limit growth in one or more regional grids. Risks Relating to Our Business We Have a History Of Losses Which May Continue and Which May Negatively Impact Our Ability to Achieve Our Business Objectives. We have incurred operating losses for the last three years. We cannot be certain that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon numerous factors. If we continue to incur losses, our accumulated deficit will continue to increase, which may make it harder for us to obtain financing and achieve our business objectives. Failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact which could result in reducing or limiting our operations. If We Experience Continuing Losses and Are Unable to Obtain Additional Funding Our Business Operations Will be Harmed and If We Do Obtain Additional Financing Our Then Existing Shareholders May Suffer Dilution. Additional capital may be required to effectively support the operations and to otherwise implement our overall business strategy. If we receive additional financing, it may not be sufficient to sustain or expand our business development operations or continue our business operations. 9 Index There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The inability to obtain additional capital will restrict our ability to grow and may reduce our ability to continue to conduct business operations. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we will likely be required to curtail our business development plans. Any additional equity financing will involve dilution to our then existing shareholders. Some of Our Competitors Are Larger and Have Greater Financial and Other Resources than We Do and Those Advantages Could Make It Difficult For Us to Compete. In the demand response industry segment several companies have achieved substantially greater market shares than we have, have longer operating histories, have larger customer bases, and have substantially greater financial, development and marketing resources than we do. If overall demand for our products and services should decrease it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Competitors may develop automated systems and business processes that are equivalent to ours, limiting or removing our current competitive advantage. Some of our competitors are larger and may have the financial resources to develop automated systems and business processes that would allow them to compete effectively with our price-based products and strategies. Competitors may develop the ability to deliver in volume the same set of products that we currently provide. Competitors may choose to provide similar products at lower margins. The Failure To Manage Our Growth In Operations And Acquisitions Of New Product Lines And New Businesses Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Us. The expected growth of our operations (as to which no representation can be made) will place a significant strain on our current management resources. To manage this expected growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and hiring, training and management of employees. Our future growth may be attributable to acquisitions of new product lines and new businesses. We anticipate that future acquisitions, if successfully consummated, may create increased working capital requirements, which will likely precede by several months any material contribution of an acquisition to our net income. Our failure to manage growth or future acquisitions successfully could seriously harm our operating results. Also, acquisition costs could cause our quarterly operating results to vary significantly. Furthermore, our stockholders would be diluted if we financed the acquisitions by incurring convertible debt or issuing securities. Although we currently only have operations within the United States, if we were to acquire an international operation; we will face additional risks, including: difficulties in staffing, managing and integrating international operations due to language, cultural or other differences; different or conflicting regulatory or legal requirements; foreign currency fluctuations; and diversion of significant time and attention of our management. If We Are Unable to Retain the Services of Mr. Evans, or If We Are Unable to Successfully Recruit Qualified Managerial and Sales Personnel Having Experience in Business, We May Not Be Able to Continue Our Operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of Mr. Kevin R. Evans, our Chief Executive Officer. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Evans. Loss of the services of this officer could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues, and prospective business. We do not maintain key-man insurance on the life of Mr. Evans. We are not aware of any named executive officer or director who has plans to leave us or retire. In addition, in order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will be dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified managerial and sales personnel having experience in business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find, attract and retain existing employees or that we will be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Our success is dependent on the growth in energy management and curtailment programs, and to the extent that such growth slows and the need for services curtail, our business may be harmed. The demand response industry segment is in a fast changing environment. While revenue from the energy products we sell have been growing annually, rules changes within the grids in which we operate may change from time to time. It is difficult to predict whether these changes will result in continued economic improvement in the industries which our company serves. If the rate of growth should slow, or energy consumers reduce their participation in these programs, our operating results may decline or fail to meet growth goals. 10 Index Our success is dependent on the actions of our participants many of which are large corporations and who may choose to limit their shifting or curtailment of electrical load. Non performance to commitments by participants could subject us to financial penalties. We are dependent on the load shifting and curtailment actions of our participants to generate energy reductions that are valuable to the grid and produce revenue. Participants may choose to implement other strategies to reduce the cost of electricity or may focus on other areas of their business to increase income or reduce costs. In some cases for capacity products, failure to meet committed reductions in energy usage could expose us to financial penalties that exceed the revenue opportunity. Our success is dependent on the continuous operation of our data center. We will lose the ability to track revenue transactions during a data outage which would result in lost revenue. Our business processes are highly automated and require the active operation of our data center to track and process revenue transactions. We will lose the ability to track and collect revenue for any period of time that our data center is not operational. While highly secure, redundant, and hardened, the operation of our data center is exposed to the negative effects of prolonged power outages or natural disasters such as earthquakes. Payment for most of our products is dependent on administrative approval of the utility servicing each participant. If one or more utility chooses to delay our payments our revenues will be delayed or reduced. The regional electrical grids are our customers and pay us for our products, but the utility servicing each participant approves each transaction and can delay or object to payment based on the rules of the particular grid. Certain utilities have delayed payments for prolonged periods. We cannot be sure that we will be paid for all transactions in the future. Our growth is partly dependent on the actions of our business partners, many of whom are large corporations. If our large business partners choose not to focus their actions on demand response our growth may be reduced. We are dependent on the actions of our business partners to provide future participants and our growth may be slowed if one or more partner chooses not to focus activity on demand response. Our growth is dependent on having a broad range of products in each region that we operate. Restrictions or delays on products that we may provide will reduce or eliminate our competitive advantage. Our broad range of products provides a competitive advantage in the recruitment of participants. Restrictions on our ability to offer multiple products in a region or delays in our ability to bring current products to new regions will reduce our competitive position and delay growth in those regions. We may not be able to anticipate or control all the rules or regulations that affect each product in each region. Our growth is dependent on the cooperation of other stake holders such as utilities and electrical generators. To the extent that these stake holders resist change our growth may be slowed. Utilities and electrical generators are the largest members of electrical grids and may for their own reasons act to slow or prevent the growth of demand response. The cooperation of all stakeholders is required to facilitate the growth of our business. Our quarterly results fluctuate and may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future. We believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance, but this may not be apparent to all stakeholders. A number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, are likely to cause these fluctuations. The factors outside of our control include: fluctuations in demand for our services; length of sales cycles; weather abnormalities; unexpected price changes; changes in the rules by the electric grid operators regarding payments for our transactional energy services; while opportunities for transactional revenue is high in cold weather months, adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, could affect our ability to render services in certain regions of the United States; reductions in the margins of products and services offered by our competitors; costs of integrating technologies or businesses that we add; and delays in payment resulting from administrative delays from utilities in processing settlements. 11 Index Factors substantially within our control include: the timing of expansion into new markets; costs incurred to support internal growth and acquisitions; fluctuations in operating results caused by acquisitions; and the timing and payments associated with possible acquisitions. Because our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and our common stock could decline significantly which may expose us to risks of securities litigation, impair our ability to attract and retain qualified individuals using equity incentives and make it more difficult to complete acquisitions using equity as consideration. Failure to keep pace with the latest technological changes could result in decreased revenues. The market for our services is partially characterized by rapid change and technological improvements. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments could result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from technology based products. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market product and service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances of our customers, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, pursuant to our service arrangements, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide thereunder. Furthermore, our electrical, technology, and transactional services are integral to the operation and performance of the electric distribution and transmission infrastructure. As a result, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we provide, even if our services are not the cause for such failures. In addition, we may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage or blackout. With respect to such lawsuits, claims, proceedings and indemnities, we have and will accrue reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued reserves, or at material amounts, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our liquidity position. Our Intellectual Property Rights May not be Adequately Protected Outside the United States, Resulting in Loss of Revenue. We believe that our trademarks, whether licensed or owned by us, and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. In the course of any potential international expansion, we may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain intellectual property. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect this intellectual property and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the proprietary rights of others. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. Intellectual Property Litigation Could Harm Our Business. Litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights is extensive in the technology industry. In the event of an intellectual property dispute, we may be forced to litigate. This litigation could involve proceedings instituted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the International Trade Commission, as well as proceedings brought directly by affected third parties. Intellectual property litigation can be extremely expensive, and these expenses, as well as the consequences should we not prevail, could seriously harm our business. 12 Index If a third party claims an intellectual property right to technology we use, we might need to discontinue an important product or product line, alter our products and processes, pay license fees or cease our affected business activities. Although we might under these circumstances attempt to obtain a license to this intellectual property, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. We are currently not aware of any intellectual property rights that are being infringed nor have we received notice from a third party that we may be infringing on any of their patents. Furthermore, a third party may claim that we are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our product candidates. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party’s patents. The technology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our licensors’ issued patents or our pending applications or our licensors’ pending applications or that we or our licensors were the first to invent the technology. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors’ patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a United States patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our United States patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. Our Independent Auditors Have Expressed Substantial Doubt About Our Ability to Continue As a Going Concern, Which May Hinder Our Ability to Obtain Future Financing. In their report dated March 19, 2009, our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the year ended January 3, 2009 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, and that they have substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors’ doubts are based on our incurring net losses and deficits in cash flows from continuing operations. We continue to experience net operating losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including by the sale of our securities, or obtaining loans from financial institutions, where possible. Our continued net operating losses and our auditors’ doubts increase the difficulty of our meeting such goals and our efforts to continue as a going concern may not prove successful. 13 Index Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If We Fail to Remain Current on Our Reporting Requirements, We Could be Removed From the OTC Bulletin Board Which Would Limit the Ability of Broker-Dealers to Sell Our Securities and the Ability of Stockholders to Sell Their Securities in the Secondary Market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. There can be no assurance that in the future we will always be current in our reporting requirements. Our Common Stock is Subject to the “Penny Stock” Rules of the SEC and the Trading Market in Our Securities is Limited, Which Makes Transactions in Our Stock Cumbersome and May Reduce the Value of an Investment in Our Stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: · that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Potential Fluctuations in Annual Operating Results Our annual operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, most of which are outside our control, including: the demand for our products and services; seasonal weather trends, price competition or pricing changes in the market; technical difficulties or system downtime; general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the construction industry. Our annual results may also be significantly impaired by the impact of the accounting treatment of acquisitions, financing transactions or other matters. Particularly at our early stage of development, such accounting treatment can have a material impact on the results for any quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, it is likely that our operating results may fall below our expectations or those of investors in some future quarter. 14 Index Limitation of Liability and Indemnification of Officers and Directors Our officers and directors are required to exercise good faith and high integrity in our management affairs. Our Articles of Incorporation provide, however, that our officers and directors shall have no liability to our shareholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in their respective managerial capacities unless they violated their duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend or stock repurchase, or derived an improper benefit from the transaction. Our Articles and By-Laws also provide for the indemnification by us of the officers and directors against any losses or liabilities they may incur as a result of the manner in which they operate our business or conduct the internal affairs, provided that in connection with these activities they act in good faith and in a manner that they reasonably believe to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of EnergyConnect, and their conduct does not constitute gross negligence, misconduct or breach of fiduciary obligations. Management of Growth We may experience growth, which will place a strain on our managerial, operational and financial systems resources. To accommodate our current size and manage growth if it occurs, we must devote management attention and resources to improve our financial strength and our operational systems. Further, we will need to expand, train and manage our sales and distribution base. There is no guarantee that we will be able to effectively manage our existing operations or the growth of our operations, or that our facilities, systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support any future growth. Our ability to manage our operations and any future growth will have a material effect on our stockholders. 