Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth below. Risks related to our business We depend on a group of key customers for a significant portion of our sales. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s financial position could harm our business and financial condition. Three customers accounted for approximately 56% of our net sales in fiscal year 2008. We believe that consolidation in the retail industry has centralized purchasing decisions and given customers greater leverage over suppliers, like us, and we expect this trend to continue. If this consolidation continues, our net sales and results of operations may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments with, one or more of our customers. While we have long-standing customer relationships, we generally do not have long-term contracts with them except for Macy’s Merchandising Group for American Rag Cie. Purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and relationships exist as long as there is a perceived benefit to both parties. A decision by a major customer, whether motivated by competitive considerations, financial difficulties, and economic conditions or otherwise, to decrease its purchases from us or to change its manner of doing business with us, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, during recent years, various retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced significant changes and difficulties, including consolidation of ownership, increased centralization of purchasing decisions, restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. These and other financial problems of some of our retailers, as well as general weakness in the retail environment, increase the risk of extending credit to these retailers. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables, limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous purchases by that customer, or result in required prepayment of our receivables securitization arrangements, all of which could harm our business and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions and the current global financial crisis. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, which constitute many of our largest customers. Consumer spending recently has deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of fashion apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income declines. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, energy costs, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, or maintain our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by sustained or further downward trends in the United States or global economy. The global banking crisis is affecting the availability of working capital to us, our vendors and customers. The stability of banks and their willingness to make credit available are vital to maintain a flow of goods from vendors to end-users. We cannot assure that banks will continue their support of those vendors who are extending us credit. There is also no assurance that open approval of customers’ credit by our factor will not be withdrawn at short notice prior to shipment and we will be left with the option of either undertaking the credit risk internally or liquidating the finished goods at a loss. The current credit crisis has increased our credit risks with vendors and customers. We extend credit to some vendors by supplying them with fabric and trims. If any of these vendors are unable to honor their commitments to us, due to bankruptcy, cessation of operations or otherwise, we will likely experience losses on the raw materials we provided, and also lose profit margins on the unshipped orders. Most of our customers are extended credit terms which are either approved by our factor or by us internally. While we have attempted to cover as much of our credit risks as possible through our factor, not all of our risks can be fully hedged due to the current credit crisis. Such exposure may translate into losses should there be any adverse changes to the financial condition of certain customers. Failure of the transportation infrastructure to move sea freight in acceptable time frames could adversely affect our business. Because the bulk of our freight is designed to move through the West Coast ports in predictable time frames, we are at risk of cancellations and penalties when those ports operate inefficiently creating delays in delivery. Unpredictable timing for shipping may cause us to utilize air freight or may result in customer penalties for late delivery, any of which could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our results of operations. Unpredictable delays as the result of increased and intensified Customs activity. U.S. Customs has stepped up efforts to scrutinize imports from foreign countries under the Home Land Security Act, and routinely performs the Container Security Initiative Examinations. This is in 10 Table of Contents addition to the Compliance Measurement Examinations, which is to address the commercial enforcement of customs transactions. Due to the numbers of different departments involved, such Customs examinations or Customs holds at the terminal or at a Customs bonded warehouse are unpredictable and cause serious interruption of normally expected freight movement timetables. Failure to manage our growth and expansion could impair our business. Since our inception, we have experienced periods of rapid growth. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in maintaining or increasing our sales in the future. Any future growth in sales will require additional working capital and may place a significant strain on our management, management information systems, inventory management, sourcing capability, distribution facilities and receivables management. Any disruption in our order processing, sourcing or distribution systems could cause orders to be shipped late, and under industry practices, retailers generally can cancel orders or refuse to accept goods due to late shipment. Such cancellations and returns would result in a reduction in revenue, increased administrative and shipping costs and a further burden on our distribution facilities. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial variations in our net sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that the factors which influence this variability of quarterly results include the timing of our introduction of new product lines, the level of consumer acceptance of each new product line, general economic and industry conditions that affect consumer spending and retailer purchasing, the availability of manufacturing capacity, the seasonality of the markets in which we participate, the timing of trade shows, the product mix of customer orders, the timing of the placement or cancellation of customer orders, the weather, transportation delays, the occurrence of charge backs in excess of reserves and the timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales and actions of competitors. Due to fluctuations in our revenue and operating expenses, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in some future quarter or quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that case, our stock price could fluctuate significantly or decline. We depend on our computer and communications systems. As a multi-national corporation, we rely on our computer and communication network to operate efficiently. Any interruption of this service from power loss, telecommunications failure, weather, natural disasters or any similar event could have a material adverse affect on our business and operations. Additionally, hackers and computer viruses have disrupted operations at many major companies. We may be vulnerable to similar acts of sabotage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may require additional capital in the future. We may not be able to fund our future growth or react to competitive pressures if we lack sufficient funds. Currently, we believe we have sufficient cash on hand and cash available through our bank credit facilities, issuance of long-term debt and equity securities, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options to fund existing operations for the foreseeable future. However, in the future we may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings or collaborative relationships. This additional funding may not be available or, if available, it may not be available on economically reasonable terms. In addition, any additional funding may result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations or obtain funds through collaborative partners that may require us to release material rights to our products. 11 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to tariffs imposed on imported products, safeguards and growth targets imposed by trade agreements. In addition, the countries in which our products are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional new duties, tariffs or other restrictions on our imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or our suppliers’ failure to comply with customs or similar laws, could harm our business. We cannot assure that future trade agreements will not provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization. Generally, these trade agreements benefit our business by reducing or eliminating the duties assessed on products manufactured in a particular country. However, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect our business, such as limiting the countries from which we can purchase raw materials and setting duties or restrictions on products that may be imported into the United States from a particular country. In addition, the World Trade Organization may commence a new round of trade negotiations that liberalize textile trade by further eliminating or reducing tariffs. The elimination of quotas on World Trade Organization member countries in 2005 has resulted in explosive growth in textile imports from China, and subsequent safeguard measures including embargo of certain China country of origin products. Actions taken to avoid these measures caused disruption, and a negative impact on margins. In 2006, quota was temporarily reinstated for China until 2008 for certain import merchandise categories. Such disruptions and the temporary measures may continue to affect us to some extent in the future. We have voluntarily implemented the guiding principles for the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) Program as proposed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection to protect our supply chain from concealment of terrorist weapons. While we have a strong commitment to this program, we are not immune to threats of terrorist activities. Our dependence on independent manufacturers reduces our ability to control the manufacturing process, which could harm our sales, reputation and overall profitability. We depend on independent contract manufacturers to secure a sufficient supply of raw materials and maintain sufficient manufacturing and shipping capacity in an environment characterized by declining prices, labor shortage, continuing cost pressure and increased demands for product innovation and speed-to-market. In addition, the current recessionary business environment could result in some suppliers ceasing operations. This dependence could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. In addition, a contractor’s failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet the required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. The failure to make timely deliveries may cause our customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries, impose non-compliance charges through invoice deductions or other charge-backs, demand reduced prices or reduce future orders, any of which could harm our sales, reputation and overall profitability. We do not have material long-term contracts with any of our independent contractors and any of these contractors may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. To the extent we are not able to secure or maintain relationships with independent contractors that are able to fulfill our requirements, our business would be harmed. 12 Table of Contents We have implemented a factory compliance agreement with our suppliers, and monitor our independent contractors’ compliance with applicable labor laws, but we do not control our contractors or their labor practices. The violation of federal, state or foreign labor laws by one of the our contractors could result in our being subject to fines and our goods that are manufactured in violation of such laws being seized or their sale in interstate commerce being prohibited. From time to time, we have been notified by federal, state or foreign authorities that certain of our contractors are the subject of investigations or have been found to have violated applicable labor laws. To date, we have not been subject to any sanctions that, individually or in the aggregate, have had a material adverse effect on our business, and we are not aware of any facts on which any such sanctions could be based. There can be no assurance, however, that in the future we will not be subject to sanctions as a result of violations of applicable labor laws by our contractors, or that such sanctions will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, certain of our customers, require strict compliance by their apparel manufacturers, including us, with applicable labor laws and visit our facilities often. There can be no assurance that the violation of applicable labor laws by one of our contractors will not have a material adverse effect on our relationship with our customers. Our business is subject to risks of operating in a foreign country and trade restrictions. We are subject to the risks associated with doing business in foreign countries, including, but not limited to, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, expropriation, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls, other non-tariff barriers and cultural issues. Any changes in those countries’ labor laws and government regulations may have a negative effect on our profitability. Risk associated with our industry Our sales are heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Apparel is a cyclical industry that is heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of apparel and related goods tend to be highly correlated with cycles in the disposable income of our consumers. Our customers anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. As a result, any further substantial deterioration in general economic conditions, increases in interest rates, acts of war, terrorist or political events that diminish consumer spending and confidence in any of the regions in which we compete, could reduce our sales and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are in the midst of a severe economic downturn, which has caused a significant reduction in customer orders and will continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our business is highly competitive and depends on consumer spending patterns. The apparel industry is highly competitive. We face a variety of competitive challenges including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes; • competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; and • the need to provide strong and effective marketing support. 13 Table of Contents We must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies retail and customer demand in a timely manner. The apparel business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated in part by fashion and season. To the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise our sales may be adversely affected. Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising and marketing staff. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. Our business is subject to seasonal trends. Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. This trend is dependent on numerous factors, including the markets in which we operate, holiday seasons, consumer demand, climate, economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. Other risks related to an investment in our common stock The proposed acquisition by Mr. Guez and Mr. Kay has created uncertainty and may result in increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. On April 25, 2008, we received an unsolicited proposal from Gerard Guez and Todd Kay, our founders, executive officers and directors, to acquire all of the outstanding publicly held shares of our common stock in a going-private transaction. On February 26, 2009, following approval of the proposed acquisition by a Special Committee of our Board of Directors, we entered into a definitive agreement and plan of merger with Sunrise Acquisition Company, LLC (an entity owned by Mr. Guez and Mr. Kay), Sunrise Merger Company, Mr. Guez and Mr. Kay. If the merger transaction contemplated by the agreement is completed, each share of our common stock, other than shares held directly or indirectly or Mr. Guez or Mr. Kay, would be converted into the right to receive $0.85 in cash and Tarrant Apparel Group would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sunrise Acquisition Company. While we have signed the definitive agreement and plan of merger with Mr. Guez and Mr. Kay with respect to the proposed acquisition, the transaction remains subject to conditions to closing, including approval of our shareholders and other conditions. Therefore, an acquisition may not be completed at all or may not be completed in a timely manner. This uncertainty could result in speculation and increased volatility in the market for our shares. If the acquisition proposal does not occur for any reason, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, our stock price may decline as a result of the fact that we have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the proposed acquisition that will not be recovered whether or not a transaction occurs. The acquisition proposal by Gerard Guez and Todd Kay has created a distraction for our management, uncertainty and risk of litigation that may adversely affect our business. The proposed acquisition by Sunrise Acquisition Company, a company owned by Gerard Guez and Todd Kay, and related matters (and the review and consideration of any alternate proposals that may be made by other parties) have been, and may continue to be, a significant distraction for our management and employees and may require the expenditure of significant time and resources by us. The proposed acquisition has also created uncertainty for our employees and this uncertainty may adversely affect our 14 Table of Contents ability to retain key employees and to hire new talent, and may also create uncertainty for current and potential business partners, which may cause them to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company involved in management buy-outs and going-private transactions. This litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business. We have obligations under certain circumstances to hold harmless and indemnify each of the members of our Board of Directors against judgments, fines, settlements and expenses related to claims against such directors and otherwise to the fullest extent permitted under California law and our bylaws and certificate of incorporation. An unfavorable outcome in any future lawsuits could result in substantial costs to us. These consequences, alone or in combination, may harm our business. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market and if we fail to do so, the price and liquidity of our common stock may decline. The Nasdaq Stock Market has quantitative maintenance criteria for the continued listing of common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. The requirement currently affecting us is maintaining a minimum closing bid price per share of $1.00. On April 2, 2008, the Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. issued a letter to us stating that we were not in compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement and, therefore, faced delisting proceedings. To regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule, the closing bid price of our common stock must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we were provided with 180 calendar days to regain compliance. We held a special meeting of shareholders on September 4, 2008 and obtained shareholders’ approval to a reverse stock split, which may be implemented by our board of directors with a range of 1-for-1.5 to 1-for-4 if necessary to assist with regaining compliance with the Nasdaq minimum bid price requirement. On October 2, 2008, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination Letter indicating that we had failed to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing and that our securities were therefore subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Global Market. On October 3, 2008, we requested a written hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel to review the Staff’s determination. On October 21, 2008, we received notification that Nasdaq has suspended its bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements for continued listing through January 16, 2008, and in December 2008, Nasdaq further extended this suspension of the minimum bid price requirement through April 17, 2009. The hearing, which was scheduled for November 20, 2008, has been cancelled. Nasdaq will not take any action through April 17, 2009 to delist our shares for the bid price deficiency. If we are still deficient in bid price at the close of business on April 17, 2009, Nasdaq will contact us to reschedule a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. If Nasdaq reschedules our appeal hearing after the rule suspension expires in April 2009, we intend to request an additional period of time, if necessary, so that we can determine whether the proposed going-private transaction will be completed before having to implement the reverse stock split. If it is determined that the going private transaction will not be completed, we intend to implement the reverse stock split as soon as possible in order to maintain listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. There is no assurance that the Nasdaq Panel will accept our appeal. Further, there can be no assurance that if the reverse stock split is implemented the price per share of our common stock after the reverse stock split will increase in an amount proportionate to the decrease in the number of issued and outstanding shares, or will increase at all, or that the market price of the common stock immediately after the reverse stock split will be maintained for any period of time. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market and must move to a market with less liquidity, our financial condition could be harmed and our stock price would likely further decline. If we are delisted, it could have a material adverse effect on the market price of, and the liquidity of the trading market for, our common stock. The requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including section 404, are burdensome, and our failure to comply with them could have a material adverse affect on our business and stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Our independent registered public accounting firm will need to annually attest to our evaluation, and issue their own opinion on our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, unless this requirement is further postponed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have prepared for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal control over financial reporting to provide the basis for our report. The process of strengthening our internal control over financial reporting and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that the measures we will undertake will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our auditors discover a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, the disclosure of that fact, even if the weakness is quickly remedied, could diminish investors’ confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading, ineligibility for listing on Nasdaq or one of the national securities exchanges, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. Insiders own a significant portion of our common stock, which could limit our shareholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions. As of March 13, 2009, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates owned approximately 42% of our common stock. Gerard Guez, our Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer, and Todd Kay, our Vice Chairman, alone own approximately 33% and 8%, respectively, of our common stock at March 13, 2009. Accordingly, our executive officers and directors have the ability to affect the outcome of, or exert considerable influence over, all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. This concentration of ownership of our common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. We have adopted a number of anti-takeover measures that may depress the price of our common stock. Our shareholders rights plan, our ability to issue additional shares of preferred stock and some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to make an unsolicited takeover attempt of us. These anti-takeover measures may depress the price of our common stock by making it more difficult for third parties to acquire us by offering to purchase shares of our stock at a premium to its market price without approval of our board of directors. 16 Table of Contents Our stock price has been volatile. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market, and there can be substantial volatility in the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in operating results, operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, loss of one or more customers, additions or departures of key personnel, future sales of common stock and stock market price and volume fluctuations. In addition, general political and economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of our common stock. Often, price fluctuations are unrelated to operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is affected. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s stock, securities class action litigation has occurred against the issuing company. If we were subject to this type of litigation in the future, we could incur substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. Any adverse determination in this type of litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. Absence of dividends could reduce our attractiveness to you. Some investors favor companies that pay dividends, particularly in general downturns in the stock market. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth, and we do not currently anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, we cannot pay dividends on our common stock unless the terms of our bank credit facilities and outstanding preferred stock, if any, permit the payment of dividends on our common stock. Because we may not pay dividends, your return on this investment likely depends on your selling our stock at a profit. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 17 Table of Contents 