ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Some of the information included herein contains forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of, estimates made by and information currently available to our management and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Any statements contained herein (including, without limitation, statements to the effect that the Company, we, or management “may,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “continues,” “plans,” “believes,” or “projects,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “intends” or statements concerning “potential” or “opportunity,” and any variations thereof, comparable terminology or the negative thereof) that are not statements of historical fact should be construed as forward-looking statements. Our actual results may vary materially from those expected in these forward-looking statements. Our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing the risks described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in the report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. The closing of the Merger is subject to certain conditions. On March 2, 2011, the closing price of our stock was $0.129 per share. On March 3, 2011, we announced the signing of the Merger Agreement. Following the announcement, our stock has been trading at prices in excess of $0.20 per share. The obligations of JCI, Merger Sub and us to complete the Merger are subject to the satisfaction (or waiver) of the following conditions, among others: • approval of the merger by a majority of our common shareholders entitled to vote on the Merger; • absence of any law, injunction, judgment or ruling prohibiting the Merger; • the accuracy of the representations and warranties of each party; and • performance, in all material respects, of all obligations and compliance with, in all material respects, agreements and covenants to be performed or complied with by each party. In addition, JCI’s and Merger Sub’s obligation to effect the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the following conditions: • there has not been, and no event or circumstances shall have occurred that would reasonably be expect to result in, a material adverse effect on us; • we having obtained cancellation acknowledgments from holders of certain warrants or such warrants having expired; and • consents having been obtained from our lender, any utility, independent system operator or market regulator whose approval is required by contract or applicable law, and the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. We cannot give any assurance that all of the conditions to the Merger will either be satisfied or waived or that the Merger will occur. If we fail to comply with covenants related to our loan agreements, we may be required to repay our indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Although we were in compliance with all covenants under the revolving line of credit (“credit line”) as of January 1, 2011, it is possible that we may not be in compliance or fail to comply with certain covenants or other 11 Table of Contents agreements in the future. Some of the covenants are subjective in nature that gives our lender the opportunity to call an event of default based upon their good faith opinion. If we are unable to meet the financial or other covenants, including the subjective covenants, under the credit line or negotiate future waivers or amendments of such covenants, an event of default could occur. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default under the revolving line of credit, Silicon Valley Bank and Partners for Growth (collectively, “SVB”) has available a range of remedies customary in these circumstances, including without limitation declaring all outstanding debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be immediately due and payable, foreclosing on the assets securing the obligations arising under the credit line and/or ceasing to provide additional revolving loans, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Even if we are in compliance with all the covenants and other terms of our credit line, there can be no assurance that SVB will continue to provide funds based upon our requests. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. In their report dated April 1, 2011, our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the year ended January 1, 2011 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, and that they have substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors’ doubts are based on our incurring net losses and deficits in cash flows from continuing operations. We continue to experience net losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including by the sale of our securities, or obtaining loans from financial institutions, where possible. Our continued net losses increase the difficulty of our meeting such goals and our efforts to continue as a going concern may not prove successful. We have incurred net losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur net losses in the future and may never reach profitability. We were incorporated in the State of Oregon in 1986, and began commercial sales of our demand response products in 2005. We have yet to demonstrate that we can generate sufficient sales of our products to become profitable. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of profitability are uncertain, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, including losses of approximately $0.3 million and $3.2 million for the fiscal years ended January 1, 2011, and January 2, 2010, respectively. At January 1, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $158 million. It is possible that we will never generate sufficient revenues from product sales to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve significant revenues from our product sales, we expect our operating expenses to increase as we, among other things: • grow our internal and third-party sales and marketing forces to expand the sales of our products; • increase our research and development efforts to improve upon our existing products and develop new products; and • acquire and/or license new technologies. As a result of these activities, we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. If we experience continuing losses and are unable to obtain additional funding, our business operations will be harmed, and if we do obtain additional financing, our shareholders may suffer significant dilution. Additional capital is required to effectively support the operations and to otherwise implement our overall business strategy. Even if we receive additional financing, it may not be sufficient to sustain or expand our business development operations or continue our business operations. 12 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The inability to obtain additional capital will restrict our ability to grow and may reduce our ability to continue to conduct business operations. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we will likely be required to curtail our business development plans. Any additional equity financing will involve dilution to our then existing shareholders. A substantial majority of our revenues are and have been generated from contracts with, and open market sales to, a small number of grid operators and utilities, and the modification or termination of these contracts or sales relationships could materially adversely affect our business. We are reliant upon both grid operators such as PJM and utilities for our revenues. Changes to market rules or sales relationships with these entities could have a material adverse impact on our business. We have experienced significant changes of the rules by PJM. In 2007, PJM initiated an economic incentive that encourages a significant activity level within the economic program. When the incentive expired in late 2007, the number of customers participating in the economic program declined significantly. On March 15, 2011, the FERC issued Order 745 regarding compensation of demand response in organized markets. The new rule directs that Independent System Operators (“ISOs”) and Regional Transmission Operators (“RTOs”) such as PJM implement changes to economic compensation such that compensation at full LMP is required when there is a net benefit to doing so. The RTOs are directed to specify an LMP price threshold above which economic demand response would be paid full LMP. The threshold levels remain to be identified by the RTOs. The ruling is expected to allow participation by some entities currently excluded and to remove barriers to entry for customers served by public power utilities. These changes should encourage more demand response activity. However, because many of the details of implementation remain uncertain, there can be no assurance as to the timing and participation levels in the economic programs within PJM and the other RTOs. We face pricing pressure relating to electric capacity made available to grid operators and utilities and in the percentage or fixed amount paid to commercial, institutional and industrial customers for making capacity available, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and delay or prevent our future profitability. We are experiencing increased competition in capacity programs. As there are limited barriers to entry, we have seen a number of small companies enter into capacity programs. This in turn has led to an increase in the share of our revenues that we share with our customers in order to remain competitive in capacity programs, resulting in increased pressure on our gross margins. Demand response, as sponsored by grid operators and utilities, is regulated by state and federal commissions. Changes in regulations could limit our ability to deliver our products to electrical grids. Lack of change in some regions could restrict the growth of demand response. Demand response is heavily regulated by FERC and state public utility commissions. Recently, regulators at federal and state levels have been supportive of facilitating the demand response business as an effective way to improve reliability and reduce costs on electrical grids. There have been a number of reports prepared by FERC that support and encourage price responsive demand response programs. However a change in FERC commissioners or federal and state attitudes toward demand response could have a material adverse effect on our business. The failure of FERC to rule in favor of such programs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow revenues or add more customers. If FERC were to rule against PJM, this may discourage other markets to develop price response programs, thus limiting our ability to sell our solutions into new emerging markets. 13 Table of Contents Regional grids establish local operating rules for demand response offerings, which limit the revenue opportunity for demand response offerings. Regional grids establish local operating rules that restrict and limit demand response offerings. Grid operating rules are established through committee processes and may be subject to FERC approval. Though demand response providers are members of regional grids and participate on these committees, other members such as electrical generators and utilities are much larger and may use their influence to set rules that limit demand response. All regional grids have rules that guide demand response revenue opportunities. In 2008, PJM Interconnection introduced new rules that changed the revenue opportunities for demand response offerings, and instituted a screening process that may limit some customers’ desire or ability to enter markets served by PJM. Additional rules may be established to restrict or outright eliminate current demand response offerings and revenue opportunities. Our ability to provide security deposits or letters of credit is limited and could negatively affect our ability to bid on or enter into significant long-term agreements or arrangements with utilities or grid operators. Recent regulatory developments may require us to post letters of credit or security deposits in order to participate in key demand response programs. Given our limited access to capital, we may not have sufficient funds to meet these credit requirements that may in turn preclude us from participating in these markets, adversely affecting our ability to create shareholder value as a standalone company. Our competitors may develop automated systems and business processes that are equivalent to ours, limiting or removing our current competitive advantage. Some of our competitors are larger and may have the financial resources to develop automated systems and business processes that would allow them to compete effectively with our price-based products and strategies. Our competitors may also develop the ability to deliver in volume the same set of products that we currently provide. Finally our competitors may choose to provide similar products at lower costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could negatively impact our results, and our share price could suffer as a consequence. Our loan agreements contain financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. Under our current credit line our lender, Silicon Valley Bank, has a perfected first position security interest in our assets. This, along with other restrictions in the credit line, significantly limits our ability to obtain additional credit while this line is in place. We have a history of losses which may continue and which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We have incurred operating losses for three of the last four years, and net losses for each of the last four years. We cannot be certain that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon numerous factors, including without limitation: • our ability to retain our current customers and participants; • our ability to sign new customers and participants; • the wholesale price of electricity in economic markets; and • the ability to configure our software for other markets 14 Table of Contents If we continue to incur losses, our accumulated deficit will continue to increase, which may make it harder for us to obtain financing and achieve our business objectives. Failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact which could result in reducing or limiting our operations. Our annual and quarterly results fluctuate and may cause our stock price to decline. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future. We believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. A number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, are likely to cause these fluctuations. The factors outside of our control include without limitation: • fluctuations in demand for our services; • length of sales cycles; • weather abnormalities; • unexpected price changes; • changes in the rules by the electric grid operators regarding payments for our transactional energy services; • adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, could affect our ability to render services in certain regions of the United States; • reductions in the margins of products and services offered by our competitors; • costs of integrating technologies or businesses that we add; and • delays in payment resulting from administrative delays from utilities in processing settlements. Because our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and the price for our common stock could decline significantly which may expose us to risks of securities litigation, impair our ability to attract and retain qualified individuals using equity incentives and make it more difficult to complete acquisitions using equity as consideration. If the software we use in providing our demand response and energy management solutions produces inaccurate information or is incompatible with the systems used by our customers, we could be unable to provide our solutions, which could lead to a loss of revenues and trigger penalty payments. We provide our customers with estimates of bill savings and revenues resulting from executing a specific curtailment strategy. These estimates are in turn based on a number of factors such as customer tariff structures, estimated wholesale electricity prices and estimates of the reduction in electricity usage as a result of a curtailment activity. If the estimates we provide prove to be significantly different from actual payments or savings, our customers’ use of the software could reduce. They may be subject to certain penalties if our estimates are inaccurate in Day-Ahead markets. Our success is dependent on the actions of our participants, many of whom are large corporations and who may choose to limit their shifting or curtailment of electrical load. Non-performance to commitments by participants could subject us to financial penalties. We are dependent on the load shifting and curtailment actions of our participants to generate energy reductions that are valuable to the grid and produce revenue. Our participants may choose to implement other strategies to reduce the cost of electricity or may focus on other areas of their business to increase income or reduce costs. In some cases for capacity products, failure to meet committed reductions in energy usage could expose us to financial penalties that exceed the revenue opportunity. 15 Table of Contents Our success is dependent on the continuous operation of our data center. We will lose the ability to track revenue transactions during a data outage which would result in lost revenue. Our business processes are highly automated and require the active operation of our data center to track and process revenue transactions. We will lose the ability to track and collect revenue for any period of time that our data center is not operational. While highly secure, redundant, and hardened, the operation of our data center is exposed to the negative effects of prolonged power outages or natural disasters such as earthquakes. Increased infrastructure investment and or lower fuel prices could reduce the cost of electricity, which would negatively impact demand response revenues. Revenues from demand response offerings are dependent on high wholesale prices for electricity during periods of high usage. Prices are particularly high when system generating capacity operates near its limits. Although increased investment in electric facilities generally increases costs, in some scenarios, increased investment in generation and transmission infrastructure could reduce prices and thereby lead to lower revenue for demand response offerings. Decreases in fuel costs, such as natural gas, could reduce the price of electricity during peak daily usage and reduce our revenue from our price-based demand response offerings. We have a limited operating history in an emerging market, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects, and may expose us to increased risks and uncertainties. The markets in which we operate are still developing. Although PJM, which is our primary market, is the most developed wholesale electricity market within North America and other regions are looking to adopt similar market models, there can be no assurance that wholesale electricity markets will develop beyond PJM. To the extent that wholesale electricity markets do not develop, our revenue growth may be adversely affected, and the price of our stock may suffer as a consequence. If we fail to successfully educate existing and potential grid operators and utility customers regarding the benefits of our demand response and energy management solutions or a market otherwise fails to develop for those solutions, our ability to sell our solutions and grow our business could be limited. We depend upon the acceptance of our technology platform by customers, grid operators and utilities, as a major driver of revenues. For example, we are currently in discussions with a number of utilities to adopt our technology and price-based demand response products as a solution to new state regulations that are coming into effect. There can be no assurance that the utilities will adopt price-based demand response programs or even if they do so, that they will use our proprietary solution. The failure to renew or sign new contracts with commercial and industrial consumers, would negatively impact our business by reducing our revenues, delaying or preventing our profitability and requiring us to spend more money to maintain and grow our commercial, institutional and industrial participant base. The majority of our participants are under annual contracts, which means we have to re-sign them each year for the capacity and economic programs. Although we have moved towards longer term contracts, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in signing more participants to longer term contracts, or in re-signing existing participants annually. The failure to retain participants could have a significant impact on our revenues. We may incur significant penalties and fines if found to be in non-compliance with any applicable State or Federal regulation, despite our best efforts at compliance and adherence. Although we have been in compliance with State and Federal regulations and have not incurred significant fines our business could suffer a material adverse impact if we were found to be in non-compliance with regulations. Furthermore, in addition to the risk of significant penalties, our ability to retain our existing participants or sign new participants could be materially adversely affected if we were found to be in non-compliance with regulations. 16 Table of Contents The success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to develop and increase the functionality of our GridConnect™ software solutions. We estimate that we have invested over 100,000 man hours into developing our GridConnect™ solution, which affords access to our EventConnect™, FlexConnect™ and ReadyConnect™ software. Not only do we have to ensure that our software continues to offer our participants up-to-date functionalities to transact in the electricity markets, we also need to continue to innovate and improve our solutions so our software remains easy to use yet critical to our customers’ energy strategies. Our success is dependent on the growth in energy management and curtailment programs, and to the extent that such growth slows and the need for services curtail, our business may be harmed. The demand response industry segment is in a fast changing environment. While revenue from the energy products we sell have been growing annually, rules changes within the grids in which we operate may change from time to time. It is difficult to predict whether these changes will result in curtailing the continued expansion of the markets we serve. If the rate of growth should slow, or energy consumers reduce their participation in these programs, our operating results may decline or fail to meet growth goals, and our share price could suffer. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do and those advantages could make it difficult for us to compete. In the demand response industry, several companies have achieved substantially greater market shares than we have, have longer operating histories, have larger customer bases, and have substantially greater financial, development and marketing resources than we do, which may give them a competitive advantage over us. Our competitors who succeed may enjoy increased revenues and profits from an increase in market share, and our results and share price could suffer as a consequence. The failure to manage our growth in operations and acquisitions of new product lines and new businesses could have a material adverse effect on us. Any growth of our operations could place a significant strain on our current management resources. To manage growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and hiring, training and management of employees. Our future growth may be attributable to acquisitions of new product lines and new businesses. We anticipate that future acquisitions, if successfully consummated, may create increased working capital requirements, which will likely precede by several months any material contribution to our net income by an acquisition. Our failure to manage growth or future acquisitions successfully could seriously harm our operating results. Also, acquisition costs could cause our quarterly operating results to vary significantly. Furthermore, our shareholders’ interests would be diluted if we financed the acquisitions by incurring convertible debt or issuing securities. Although we currently only have operations within the United States, if we were to acquire an international operation, we would face additional risks, including without limitation: • difficulties in staffing, managing and integrating international operations due to language, cultural or other differences; • different or conflicting regulatory or legal requirements; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • diversion of significant time and attention of our management. 17 Table of Contents Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management. The management of our business is dependent on key personnel that may be difficult to replace. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management and international personnel. Our chief executive officer, Kevin Evans, is particularly important to our ability to succeed. From time to time we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions. We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, benefits and equity compensation. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel is highly competitive, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where we are headquartered. If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors, and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge and experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity and the ability to attract and retain other key employees. In addition, we must carefully balance the growth of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated operating cash flows. If our revenue growth or employee levels vary significantly, our operating cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock options, other equity incentives or both. Our practice has been to provide equity incentives to our employees through the use of stock options and other equity vehicles, but the number of shares available for new options and other forms of securities grants is limited. We may find it difficult to provide competitive stock option grants or other equity incentives, and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer. Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce of both employees and contractors to align our employee base with our anticipated revenue base or with our areas of focus, and we have experienced turnover in our workforce. These reductions have resulted in reallocations of duties, which could result in employee and contractor anxiety. Reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to attract, motivate and retain employees and contractors, which could affect our ability to deliver our products in a timely fashion and adversely affect our business. Payment for most of our products is dependent on administrative approval of the utility servicing each customer. If one or more utilities choose to delay payments to us, our revenues will be delayed or reduced. The regional electrical grids are our customers and pay us for our products, but the utility servicing each participant approves each transaction and can delay or object to payment based on the rules of the particular grid. Certain utilities have delayed payments for prolonged periods. We cannot be sure that we will be paid for all transactions in the future. Our growth is dependent on having a broad range of products in each region that we operate. Restrictions or delays on products that we may provide will reduce or eliminate our competitive advantage. Our broad range of products provides a competitive advantage in the recruitment of customers and participants. Restrictions on our ability to offer multiple products in a region or delays in our ability to bring current products to new regions will reduce our competitive position and delay growth in those regions. We may not be able to anticipate or control all the rules or regulations that affect each product in each region. Our growth is dependent on the cooperation of other stake holders such as utilities and electrical generators. To the extent that these stake holders resist change, our growth may be slowed. Utilities and electrical generators are the largest members of electrical grids and may for their own reasons act to slow or prevent the growth of demand response. The cooperation of all stakeholders is required to facilitate the growth of our business. 18 Table of Contents Failure to keep pace with the latest technological changes could result in decreased revenues. The market for our services is partially characterized by rapid change and technological improvements. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments could result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from technology-based products. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market product and service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances of our customers, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. In addition, pursuant to our service arrangements, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide there under. Furthermore, our electrical, technology, and transactional services are integral to the operation and performance of the electricity distribution and transmission infrastructure. As a result, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we provide, even if our services are not the cause for such failures. In addition, we may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage or blackout. With respect to such lawsuits, claims, proceedings and indemnities, we have and will accrue reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued reserves, or at material amounts, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our liquidity position. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the United States, resulting in loss of revenue. We believe that our software and other intellectual property and proprietary rights, whether licensed or owned by us, are important to our success and our competitive position. In the course of any potential international expansion, we may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain intellectual property. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the proprietary rights of others. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, our proprietary rights or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may become involved in various legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business with possibly adverse results, and are currently named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit. From time to time, we may become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters may arise from time to time that may harm our business. At present, EnergyConnect, its board of directors, JCI Holding and Eureka, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of JCI Holding, are named as defendants in three putative class action lawsuits brought by alleged shareholders challenging EnergyConnect’s proposed merger with JCI Holding. The shareholder actions generally allege, among other things, that each member of the EnergyConnect board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to EnergyConnect shareholders by authorizing the sale of EnergyConnect to JCI Holding for consideration that does not maximize value to EnergyConnect shareholders. The complaints also allege that EnergyConnect, JCI Holding 19 Table of Contents and Eureka, Inc. aided and abetted the breaches of fiduciary duty allegedly committed by the members of the EnergyConnect board of directors. The shareholder actions seek equitable relief, including enjoining the defendants from consummating the merger on the agreed-upon terms. On March 28, 2011, the court entered an order consolidating the three cases into one matter. See also Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Intellectual property litigation could harm our business. Litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights is extensive in the technology industry. In the event of an intellectual property dispute, we may be forced to litigate. Such litigation could involve proceedings instituted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the International Trade Commission, as well as proceedings brought directly by affected third parties. Intellectual property litigation can be extremely expensive, and these expenses, as well as the consequences should we not prevail, could seriously harm our business. If a third party claims an intellectual property right to technology we use, we may be forced to discontinue an important product or product line, alter our products and processes, pay license fees or cease our affected business activities. Although we might under these circumstances attempt to obtain a license to the intellectual property in dispute, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, a third party may claim that we are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our product candidates. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors’ patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a United States patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our United States patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. We depend on the electric power industry for revenues and, as a result, our operating results have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant variability due to volatility in electricity prices, seasonality of peak demand and overall demand for electricity. An oversupply of electric generation capacity and varying regulatory structures, program rules and program designs in certain regional power markets could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We saw a significant shift in the profile of our revenues from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009. As electricity prices have been near all-time lows due to low fuel prices and the impact of the economic recession, the ability for our customers to transact in the economic programs was significantly reduced in 2009 and 2010. We have therefore relied upon the capacity markets to make up nearly all of our revenues over the last two years. In contrast, in 2008 we saw strong electricity prices and very active economic programs that accounted for a majority of our revenues. 20 Table of Contents Global economic and credit market conditions, and any associated impact on spending by utilities or grid operators or on the continued operations of our commercial, institutional and industrial customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to the effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. This can not only manifest itself into low fuel prices and lower level of demand for electricity that result in wholesale electricity prices being below the retail rates for our participants, thereby limiting participation in the economic programs, but can also result in longer sales cycles to sign new participants to our contracts. Regional grids that have active wholesale markets could revert to vertical control by utilities, limiting our revenue opportunities. State regulators could restrict or eliminate wholesale markets for electricity that are the basis for priced-based energy demand response, thereby limiting our revenue opportunities. Very high prices or lack of generating capacity to match demand could create political pressure, as happened in California in 2000, to return to vertical control of generation through delivery to utilities, which would reduce the revenue opportunity for our demand response offerings. Technological advances could reduce the cost of electricity, limiting our revenue. Technological advances could increase electrical generating capacity, reduce transmission losses and thereby reduce the price of electricity. In addition, advances in electricity storage capabilities could come to market that would allow grid operators an alternative solution to help balance the load on the grid. Development of either technology could reduce revenue opportunities for our demand response products. Failure of other providers of demand response products to provide value to the electricity grids may limit the entire demand response market through unfavorable regulation and/or operating rules on particular grids. Our growth in the demand response area is dependent in part on other electricity grids developing wholesale markets for electricity. Other grid operators are likely to look to PJM programs and monitor the success of these programs before deciding to introduce similar programs in their area. One of the elements of this decision making may be how curtailment service providers within PJM managed the demand response activities. If other providers see areas of the PJM program that have not worked effectively they could create potentially unfavorable regulations or operating rules within their grids that could limit opportunities for us to expand. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation which could result in increased future tax liability for us. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. The number of shares of our common stock that we issued as a result of our private placement in 2008, combined with debt conversion in 2010, may be sufficient, taking into account prior or future shifts in our ownership over a three-year period, to cause us to undergo an ownership change. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal and state taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could result in an increased future tax liability for us. In addition, we will not be able to utilize any operating loss carryovers in California due to the California Budget Act of 2010, S870, enacted on October 8, 2010, which suspended the utilization of net operating loss carryovers for purposes of California state tax. 21 Table of Contents Our directors and management will exercise significant control over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our directors and management, acting together, could have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; and • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Natural disasters and events beyond our control can affect our operations and ability to collect revenues. Our operations and revenues can be subject to natural disasters and other events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, tsunami, extreme wind conditions, power failures, telecommunication loss, terrorist attacks and acts of war. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in California near major earthquake faults. Such events of disaster, whether natural or manmade, could cause severe destruction or interruption to our operations and as a result, our business could suffer serious harm. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board, which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13 in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board, and the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. There can be no assurance that in the future we will always be current in our reporting requirements. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: • that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and • that the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: • obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and • make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. 22 Table of Contents The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: • sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and • states that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 