Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are a number of factors and variables described below that may affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Other factors of which we are currently not aware or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our results of operations and financial position. Risks Related to the Economy and Our Industries · General economic conditions, such as decreased consumer confidence and spending, reductions in manufacturing capacity, and inflation could result in our failure to achieve our historical sales growth rates and profit levels. Current economic conditions may cause the loss of consumer confidence in the Company’s markets which may result in a decrease of spending in the categories of products we sell. With conditions in the market for technology products remaining highly competitive, reductions in our selling prices, as we experienced in 2010 and 2009, would adversely affect our revenues and profits. It is also possible that as manufacturers react to the marketplace they may reduce manufacturing capacity or allocations to their customers creating shortages of product. Both we and our customers are subject to global political, economic and market conditions, including inflation, interest rates, energy costs, the impact of natural disasters, military action and the threat of terrorism. Our consolidated results of operations are directly affected by economic conditions in North America and Europe. We may experience a decline in sales as a result of poor economic conditions and the lack of visibility relating to future orders. Our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volumes with existing customers, our ability to limit price reductions and maintain our margins, our ability to attract new customers and the financial condition of our customers. A decline in the economy that adversely affects our customers, causing them to limit or defer their spending, would likely adversely affect our sales, prices and profitability as well. We cannot predict with any certainty whether we will be able to maintain or improve upon historical sales volumes with existing customers, or whether we will be able to attract new customers. In response to economic and market conditions, from time to time we have undertaken initiatives to reduce our cost structure where appropriate. These initiatives, as well as any future workforce and facilities reductions, may not be sufficient to meet current and future changes in economic and market conditions and allow us to continue to achieve the growth rates and levels of profitability we have recently experienced. In addition, costs actually incurred in connection with our restructuring actions may be higher than our estimates of such costs and/or may not lead to the anticipated cost savings. · The markets for our products and services are extremely competitive and if we are unable to successfully respond to our competitors’ strategies our sales and gross margins will be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive and subject to constant technological change. We expect this competition to further intensify in the future. Competitive factors include price, availability, service and support. We compete with a wide variety of other resellers and retailers, including internet marketers, as well as manufacturers. Many of our competitors are larger companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than ours. The market for the sale of industrial products in North America is highly fragmented and is characterized by multiple distribution channels such as small dealerships, direct mail distribution, internet-based resellers, large warehouse stores and retail outlets. We also face competition from manufacturers’ own sales representatives, who sell industrial equipment directly to customers, and from regional or local distributors. In addition, new competitors may enter our markets. This may place us at a disadvantage in responding to competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives, resulting in our inability to increase our revenues or maintain our gross margins in the future. 8 In most cases our products compete directly with those offered by other manufacturers and distributors. If any of our competitors were to develop products or services that are more cost-effective or technically superior, demand for our product offerings could decrease. Our gross margins are also dependent on the mix of products we sell and could be adversely affected by a continuation of our customers’ shift to lower-priced products. · State sales tax laws may be changed which could result in ecommerce and direct mail retailers having to collect sales taxes in states where the current laws do not require us to do so. This could reduce demand for our products in such states and could result in us having substantial tax liabilities for past sales. Our United States subsidiaries collect and remit sales tax in states in which the subsidiaries have physical presence or in which we believe nexus exists which obligates us to collect sales tax. Other states may, from time to time, claim that we have state-related activities constituting a sufficient nexus to require such collection. Additionally, many other states seek to impose sales tax collection or reporting obligations on companies that sell goods to customers in their state, or directly to the state and its political subdivisions, even without a physical presence. Such efforts by states have increased recently, as states seek to raise revenues without increasing the tax burden on residents. We rely on United States Supreme Court decisions which hold that, without Congressional authority, a state may not enforce a sales tax collection obligation on a company that has no physical presence in the state and whose only contacts with the state are through the use of interstate commerce such as the mailing of catalogs into the state and the delivery of goods by mail or common carrier. We cannot predict whether the nature or level of contacts we have with a particular state will be deemed enough to require us to collect sales tax in that state nor can we be assured that Congress or individual states will not approve legislation authorizing states to impose tax collection or reporting obligations on all e-commerce and/or direct mail transactions. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales tax on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales and would result in considerable administrative burdens and costs for us and may reduce demand for our products from customers in such states when we charge customers for such taxes. · Events such as acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, changes in law, or large losses could adversely affect our insurance coverage and insurance expense, resulting in an adverse affect on our profitability and financial condition. We insure for certain property and casualty risks consisting primarily of physical loss to property, business interruptions resulting from property losses, worker’s compensation, comprehensive general liability, and auto liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic property and casualty exposures as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is reasonable, significant events such as acts of war and terrorism, economic conditions, judicial decisions, legislation, natural disasters and large losses could materially affect our insurance obligations and future expense. · Changes in accounting standards or practices, as well as new accounting pronouncements or interpretations, may require us to account for and report our financial results in a different manner in the future, which may be less favorable than the manner used historically. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and interpretations of existing accounting rules and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules may adversely affect our reported financial results. 9 Risks Related to Our Company · We rely to a great extent on our information and telecommunications systems, and significant system failures or outages, or our failure to properly evaluate, upgrade or replace our systems, or the failure of our security/safety measures to protect our systems and websites, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. We rely on a variety of information and telecommunications systems in our operations. Our success is dependent in large part on the accuracy and proper use of our information systems, including our telecommunications systems. To manage our growth, we continually evaluate the adequacy of our existing systems and procedures. We anticipate that we will regularly need to make capital expenditures to upgrade and modify our management information systems, including software and hardware, as we grow and the needs of our business change. In particular, our primary financial system is being replaced currently. The occurrence of a significant system failure, electrical or telecommunications outages or our failure to expand or successfully implement new systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our information systems networks, including our websites, and applications could be adversely affected by viruses or worms and may be vulnerable to malicious acts such as hacking. The availability and efficiency of sales via our websites could also be adversely affected by “denial of service” attacks and other unfair competitive practices. Although we take preventive measures, these procedures may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. · We rely on third party suppliers for most of our products and services. The loss or interruption of these relationships could impact our sales volumes, the levels of inventory we must carry, and/or result in sales delays and/or higher inventory costs from new suppliers. Coop advertising and other sales incentives provided by our suppliers could decrease in the future thereby increasing our expenses and adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. We purchase substantially all of our technology products from major distributors and directly from large manufacturers who may deliver those products directly to our customers. These relationships enable us to make available to our customers a wide selection of products without having to maintain large amounts of inventory. The termination or interruption of our relationships with any of these suppliers could materially adversely affect our business. We purchase a number of our products from vendors outside of the United States. Difficulties encountered by one or several of these suppliers could halt or disrupt production and delay completion or cause the cancellation of our orders. Delays or interruptions in the transportation network could result in loss or delay of timely receipt of product required to fulfill customer orders. Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the U.S. Political or financial instability, merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, trade restrictions, work stoppages, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, civil unrest, outbreaks of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other issues affecting our vendors could materially adversely affect our revenue and gross profit. Our PC products contain electronic components, subassemblies and software that in some cases are supplied through sole or limited source third-party suppliers, some of which are located outside of the U.S. Although we do not anticipate any problems procuring supplies in the near-term, there is no assurance that parts and supplies will be available in a timely manner and at reasonable prices. Any loss of, or interruption of, supply from key suppliers may require us to find new suppliers. This could result in production or development delays while new suppliers are located, which could substantially impair operating results. If the availability of these or other components used in the manufacture of our products was to decrease, or if the prices for these components were to increase significantly, operating costs and expenses could be adversely affected. Many product suppliers provide us with co-op advertising support in exchange for featuring their products in our catalogs and on our internet sites. Certain suppliers provide us with other incentives such as rebates, reimbursements, payment discounts, price protection and other similar arrangements. These incentives are offset against cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses, as applicable. The level of co-op advertising support and other incentives received from suppliers may decline in the future, which could increase our cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses and have an adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows. We currently offer a wide variety of products manufactured in Japan or utilizing Japanese components. In this regard, the recent and still unfolding events in Japan could adversely impact our ability to source products manufactured in Japan as well as products manufactured elsewhere utilizing Japanese components, and such events are expected to result in higher prices for available products. If we are unable to source such products, procure alternative product sources or pass along such price increases, our sales and margins could be materially adversely affected. 10 · Goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired resulting in a charge to earnings. The acquisition of certain assets of CompUSA, CircuitCity and the purchase of the stock of WStore Europe SA resulted in the recording of significant intangible assets and or goodwill. We are required to test goodwill and intangible assets annually to determine if the carrying values of these assets are impaired or on a more frequent basis if indicators of impairment exist. If any of our goodwill or intangible assets are determined to be impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the period during which the impairment is discovered. · Our substantial international operations are subject to risks such as fluctuations in currency rates (which can adversely impact foreign revenues and profits when translated to US Dollars), foreign regulatory requirements, political uncertainty and the management of our growing international operations. We operate internationally and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Risks inherent to operating overseas include: · Changes in a country’s economic or political conditions · Changes in foreign currency exchange rates · Difficulties with staffing and managing international operations · Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements For example, we currently have operations located in numerous countries outside the United States, and non-U.S. sales (Europe, Canada and Puerto Rico) accounted for approximately 35.9% of our revenue during 2010. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars. · We are exposed to various inventory risks, such as being unable to profitably resell excess or obsolete inventory and/or the loss of product return rights and price protection from our vendors; such events could lower our gross margins or result in inventory write-downs that would reduce reported future earnings. Our inventory is subject to risk due to technological change and changes in market demand for particular products. If we fail to manage our inventory of older products we may have excess or obsolete inventory. We may have limited rights to return purchases to certain suppliers and we may not be able to obtain price protection on these items. The elimination of purchase return privileges and lack of availability of price protection could lower our gross margin or result in inventory write-downs. We also take advantage of attractive product pricing by making opportunistic bulk inventory purchases; any resulting excess and/or obsolete inventory that we are not able to re-sell could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Any inability to make such bulk inventory purchases may significantly impact our sales and profitability. · If we fail to observe certain restrictions and covenants under our credit facilities the lenders could refuse to waive such default, terminate the credit facility and demand immediate repayment, which would adversely affect our cash position and materially adversely affect our operations. Our United States/United Kingdom combined revolving credit agreement contains covenants restricting or limiting our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt · create or permit liens on assets · make capital expenditures or investments · pay dividends If we fail to comply with the covenants and other requirements set forth in the credit agreement, we would be in default and would need to negotiate a waiver agreement with the lenders. Failure to agree on such a waiver could result in the lenders terminating the credit agreement and demanding repayment of any outstanding borrowings, which could adversely affect our cash position and adversely affect the availability of financing to us, which could materially impact our operations. · We depend on bank credit facilities to address our working capital and cash flow needs from time to time, and if we are unable to renew or replace these facilities, or borrowing capacity were to be reduced our liquidity and capital resources may be adversely affected. 11 We require significant levels of capital in our business to finance accounts receivable and inventory. We maintain credit facilities in the United States and in Europe to finance increases in our working capital if available cash is insufficient. The amount of credit available to us at any point in time may be adversely affected by the quality or value of the assets collateralizing these credit lines. In addition, in recent years global financial markets have experienced diminished liquidity and lending constraints. Our ability to obtain future and/or increased financing to satisfy our requirements as our business expands could be adversely affected by economic and market conditions, credit availability and lender perception of our Company and industry .. However, we currently have no reason to believe that we will not be able to renew or replace our facilities when they reach maturity. · We have experienced rapid growth in retail stores in North America and to maintain their profitability we must effectively manage our growth and cost structure, such as inventory needs, point of sales systems, personnel and lease expense. We have 41 retail stores in North America at December 31, 2010. The Company needs to effectively manage its cost structure in order to maintain profitability including the additional inventory needs, retail point of sales IT systems, retail personnel and leased facilities. Future growth in retail will also be dependent on the ability to attract customers and build brand loyalty. The retail computer and consumer electronics business is highly competitive and has narrow gross margins. If we fail to manage our growth and cost structure while maintaining high levels of service and meeting competitive pressures adequately, our business plan may not be achieved and may lead to reduced profitability. · The failure to timely and satisfactorily process manufacturers’ and our own rebate programs could negatively impact our customer satisfaction levels. Similar to other companies in the technology products industry, we advertise manufacturers’ mail-in rebates on many products we sell and, in some cases, offer our own rebates. These rebates are processed through third party vendors and in house. If these rebates are not processed in a timely and satisfactory manner by either third party vendors or our in house operations, our reputation in the marketplace could be negatively impacted. · We may be unable to reduce prices in reaction to competitive pressures, or implement cost reductions or new product line expansion to address gross profit and operating margin pressures; failure to mitigate these pressures could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The computer and consumer electronics industry is highly price competitive and gross profit margins are narrow and variable. The Company’s ability to further reduce prices in reaction to competitive pressure is limited. Additionally, gross margins and operating margins are affected by changes in factors such as vendor pricing, vendor rebate and or price protection programs, product return rights, and product mix. Pricing pressure continued to be prevalent in 2010 as a result of the significant decline in economic activity in the markets we serve and we expect this to continue during this or any period of sustained economic decline. We may not be able to mitigate these pricing pressures and resultant declines in sales and gross profit margin with cost reductions in other areas or expansion into new product lines. If we are unable to proportionately mitigate these conditions our operating results and financial condition may suffer. · We would be exposed to liability, including substantial fines and penalties and, in extreme cases, loss of our ability to accept credit cards, in the event our privacy and data security policies and procedures are inadequate to prevent security breaches of our consumer personal information and credit card information records. In processing our sales orders we often collect personal information and credit card information from our customers. The Company has privacy and data security policies in place which are designed to prevent security breaches, however, if a third party or a rogue employee or employees are able to bypass our network security or otherwise compromise our customers’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability may include claims for identity theft, unauthorized purchases and claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices or other related claims. Further, the Company has not yet achieved full compliance with the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) security standards. Without full compliance, any breach involving the loss of credit card information may lead to PCI related fines of up to $500,000. In the event of a severe breach credit card providers may prevent the accepting of credit cards. Any such liability related to the aforementioned risks could lead to reduced profitability and damage our brand(s) and or reputation. 12 · Failure to protect the integrity, security and use of our customers’ information could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers The use of individually identifiable consumer data is regulated at the state, federal and international levels and we incur costs associated with information security – such as increased investment in technology and the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws. Additionally, our internet operations and website sales depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. While we have taken significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition and could subject us to litigation. · Sales to individual customers expose us to credit card fraud, which impacts our operations. If we fail to adequately protect ourselves from credit card fraud, our operations could be adversely impacted. Failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could increase our expenses. Increased sales to individual consumers, which are more likely to be paid for using a credit card, increases our exposure to fraud. We employ technology solutions to help us detect the fraudulent use of credit card information. However, if we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, we may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, which could adversely affect our business. · Our profitability can be adversely affected by increases in our income tax exposure due to, among other things, changes in the mix of U.S. and non-U.S. revenues and earnings, changes in tax rates or laws, changes in our effective tax rate due to changes in the mix of earnings among different countries and changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Changes in our income tax expense due to changes in the mix of U.S. and non-U.S. revenues and profitability, changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or by material audit assessments. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets, which are primarily in the United States and the United Kingdom, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in those jurisdictions. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. · Our business is dependent on certain key personnel. Our business depends largely on the efforts and abilities of certain key senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. We do not maintain key man insurance policies on any of our executive officers. · We are subject to litigation risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. These may relate to, for example, patent, trademark or other intellectual property matters, employment law matters, product liability, commercial disputes, consumer sales practices or other matters. In addition, as a public company we could from time to time face claims relating to corporate or securities law matters. The defense and/or outcome of such lawsuits or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 