Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are a number of factors and variables described below that may affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Other factors of which we are currently not aware or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our results of operations and financial position. Risks Related to the Economy and Our Industries · General economic conditions, such as decreased consumer confidence and spending, reductions in manufacturing capacity, and inflation could result in our failure to achieve our historical sales growth rates and profit levels. Current economic conditions may cause the loss of consumer confidence in the Company’s domestic and international markets which may result in a decrease of spending in the categories of products we sell, as occurred in 2012. With conditions in the market for technology products remaining highly competitive, reductions in our selling prices, as we have experienced in recent years, have adversely affected our revenues and profits and could continue to do so in the future. It is also possible that as manufacturers react to the marketplace they may reduce manufacturing capacity or allocations to their customers creating shortages of product. Both we and our customers are subject to global political, economic and market conditions, including inflation, interest rates, energy costs, the impact of natural disasters, military action and the threat of terrorism. Our consolidated results of operations are directly affected by economic conditions in North America and Europe. We may experience a decline in sales as a result of poor economic conditions and the lack of visibility relating to future orders, as occurred in 2012. Our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volumes with existing customers, our ability to limit price reductions and maintain our margins, our ability to attract new customers and the financial condition of our customers. A decline in the economy that adversely affects our customers, causing them to limit or defer their spending, would likely adversely affect our sales, prices and profitability as well, as occurred in 2012. We cannot predict with any certainty whether we will be able to maintain or improve upon historical sales volumes with existing customers, or whether we will be able to attract new customers. In response to economic and market conditions, from time to time we have undertaken initiatives to reduce our cost structure where appropriate. These initiatives, as well as any future workforce and facilities reductions, may not be sufficient to meet current and future changes in economic and market conditions and allow us to continue to achieve the growth rates and re-attain the levels of profitability we experienced prior to the recent market downturns. In addition, costs actually incurred in connection with our restructuring actions, including launching and integrating the new shared services facility in Hungary, may be higher than our estimates of such costs and/or may not lead to the anticipated cost savings. 8 Table of Contents · The markets for our products and services are extremely competitive and if we are unable to successfully respond to our competitors’ strategies our sales and gross margins will be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive and subject to constant technological change. We expect this competition to further intensify in the future. Competitive factors include price, availability, service and support. We compete with a wide variety of other resellers and retailers, including internet marketers, as well as manufacturers. Many of our competitors are larger companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than ours. The market for the sale of industrial products in North America is highly fragmented and is characterized by multiple distribution channels such as small dealerships, direct mail distribution, internet-based resellers, large warehouse stores and retail outlets. We also face competition from manufacturers’ own sales representatives, who sell industrial equipment directly to customers, and from regional or local distributors. In addition, new competitors may enter our markets. This may place us at a disadvantage in responding to competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives, resulting in our inability to increase our revenues or maintain our gross margins in the future. In most cases our products compete directly with those offered by other manufacturers and distributors. If any of our competitors were to develop products or services that are more cost-effective or technically superior, demand for our product offerings could decrease. Our gross margins are also dependent on the mix of products we sell and could be adversely affected by a continuation of our customers’ shift to lower-priced products. · Sales tax laws may be changed or interpreted differently which could result in ecommerce and direct mail retailers having to collect sales taxes in states where the current laws do not require us to do so. This could reduce demand for our products in such states and could result in us having substantial tax liabilities for past sales. Our United States subsidiaries collect and remit sales tax in states in which the subsidiaries have physical presence or in which we believe sufficient nexus exists which obligates us to collect sales tax. Other states may, from time to time, claim that we have state-related activities constituting physical nexus to require such collection. Additionally, many other states seek to impose sales tax collection or reporting obligations on companies that sell goods to customers in their state, or directly to the state and its political subdivisions, regardless of physical presence. Such efforts by states have increased recently, as states seek to raise revenues without increasing the income tax burden on residents. We rely on United States Supreme Court decisions which hold that, without Congressional authority, a state may not enforce a sales tax collection obligation on a company that has no physical presence in the state and whose only contacts with the state are through the use of interstate commerce such as the mailing of catalogs into the state and the delivery of goods by mail or common carrier. We cannot predict whether the nature or level of contacts we have with a particular state will be deemed enough to require us to collect sales tax in that state nor can we be assured that Congress or individual states will not approve legislation authorizing states to impose tax collection or reporting obligations on all e-commerce and/or direct mail transactions. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales tax on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales would result in considerable administrative burdens and costs for us and may reduce demand for our products from customers in such states when we charge customers for such taxes. · Events such as acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, changes in law, or large losses could adversely affect our insurance coverage and insurance expense, resulting in an adverse affect on our profitability and financial condition. We insure for certain property and casualty risks consisting primarily of physical loss to property, business interruptions resulting from property losses, worker’s compensation, comprehensive general liability, and auto liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic property and casualty exposures as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is reasonable, significant events such as acts of war and terrorism, economic conditions, judicial decisions, legislation, natural disasters and large losses could materially affect our insurance obligations and future expense. 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Company · We rely to a great extent on our information and telecommunications systems, and significant system failures or outages, or our failure to properly evaluate, upgrade or replace our systems, or the failure of our security/safety measures to protect our systems and websites, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. We rely on a variety of information and telecommunications systems in our operations. Our success is dependent in large part on the accuracy and proper use of our information systems, including our telecommunications systems. To manage our growth, we continually evaluate the adequacy of our existing systems and procedures. We anticipate that we will regularly need to make capital expenditures to upgrade and modify our management information systems, including software and hardware, as we grow and the needs of our business change. The occurrence of a significant system failure, electrical or telecommunications outages or our failure to expand or successfully implement new systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our information systems networks, including our websites, and applications could be adversely affected by viruses or worms and may be vulnerable to malicious acts such as hacking. The availability and efficiency of sales via our websites could also be adversely affected by “denial of service” attacks and other unfair competitive practices. Although we take preventive measures, these procedures may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. · The establishment and integration of our new shared service center in Hungary exposes us to various technology, regulatory and economic risks. We have announced that we will be launching our new shared services center in Budapest, Hungary during the second quarter of 2013. The new facility will provide certain administrative and back office services to our European business and will help drive operational efficiencies and better serve the Company's pan-European operating strategy. Our efforts to operate our European business in a more centralized manner, rather than on an individual country by country basis, will require us to implement changes in our business processes, eliminate redundancies, relocate and/or hire new personnel, transition our information management systems, and integrate the new operation into our existing business seamlessly and without disruption to our operations, customers and vendors. However, changes in economic, regulatory or political conditions in Hungary, delays in launching or integrating the facility, a lower than expected impact of the facility on the Company’s European operations, costs and capital expenditures, the ability to timely hire and train new employees in Hungary, and delays, impediments or other problems associated with its establishment, could all have a material adverse effect on our European operations and our results of operations. · We rely on third party suppliers for most of our products and services. The loss or interruption of these relationships could impact our sales volumes, the levels of inventory we must carry, and/or result in sales delays and/or higher inventory costs from new suppliers. Co-operative advertising and other sales incentives provided by our suppliers could decrease in the future thereby increasing our expenses and adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. We purchase substantially all of our technology products from major distributors and directly from large manufacturers who may deliver those products directly to our customers. These relationships enable us to make available to our customers a wide selection of products without having to maintain large amounts of inventory. The termination or interruption of our relationships with any of these suppliers could materially adversely affect our business. We purchase a number of our products from vendors outside of the United States. Difficulties encountered by one or several of these suppliers could halt or disrupt production and delay completion or cause the cancellation of our orders. Delays or interruptions in the transportation network could result in loss or delay of timely receipt of product required to fulfill customer orders. Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the U.S. Political or financial instability, merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, trade restrictions, work stoppages, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, civil unrest, outbreaks of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other issues affecting our vendors could materially adversely affect our revenue and gross profit. Many product suppliers provide us with co-operative advertising support in exchange for featuring their products in our catalogs and on our internet sites. Certain suppliers provide us with other incentives such as rebates, reimbursements, payment discounts, price protection and other similar arrangements. These incentives are offset against cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses, as applicable. The level of co-operative advertising support and other incentives received from suppliers may decline in the future, which could increase our cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses and have an adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents · Goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired resulting in a charge to earnings. The acquisition of certain assets of CompUSA, Circuit City and the purchase of the stock of WStore Europe SA resulted in the recording of significant intangible assets and/or goodwill. We are required to test goodwill and intangible assets annually to determine if the carrying values of these assets are impaired or on a more frequent basis if indicators of impairment exist. If any of our goodwill or intangible assets are determined to be impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the period during which the impairment is discovered. In the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company did record one-time, non-cash impairment charges of approximately $35.3 million related to the intangible assets and goodwill of CompUSA and Circuit City. · Our substantial international operations are subject to risks such as fluctuations in currency rates (which can adversely impact foreign revenues and profits when translated to US Dollars), foreign regulatory requirements, political uncertainty and the management of our growing international operations. We operate internationally and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally, such as risks related to the differing legal, political and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to operating internationally include: · Changes in a country’s economic or political conditions · Changes in foreign currency exchange rates · Difficulties with staffing and managing international operations · Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements · Changes in transportation and shipping costs · Enforcement of intellectual property rights We conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most of the countries in which we operate. The financial condition and results of operations of each foreign operating subsidiary are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. Dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets, liabilities, net sales, cost of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange gains or losses. The primary currencies to which we have exposure are the European Union Euro, Canadian Dollar, British Pound Sterling, and the U.S. Dollar. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. Dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. Our operating results and net income may be affected by any volatility in currency exchange rates and our ability to manage effectively our currency transaction and translation risks. For example, we currently have operations located in numerous countries outside the United States, and non-U.S. sales (Europe and Canada) accounted for approximately 37.8% of our revenue during 2012. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars. · We are exposed to various inventory risks, such as being unable to profitably resell excess or obsolete inventory and/or the loss of product return rights and price protection from our vendors; such events could lower our gross margins or result in inventory write-downs that would reduce reported future earnings. Our inventory is subject to risk due to technological change and changes in market demand for particular products. If we fail to manage our inventory of older products we may have excess or obsolete inventory. We may have limited rights to return purchases to certain suppliers and we may not be able to obtain price protection on these items. The elimination of purchase return privileges and lack of availability of price protection could lower our gross margin or result in inventory write-downs. We also take advantage of attractive product pricing by making opportunistic bulk inventory purchases; any resulting excess and/or obsolete inventory that we are not able to re-sell could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Any inability to make such bulk inventory purchases may significantly impact our sales and profitability. 11 Table of Contents · We depend on bank credit facilities to address our working capital and cash flow needs from time to time, and if we are unable to renew or replace these facilities, or borrowing capacity were to be reduced our liquidity and capital resources may be adversely affected. We require significant levels of capital in our business to finance accounts receivable and inventory. We maintain credit facilities in the United States to finance increases in our working capital if available cash is insufficient. The amount of credit available to us at any point in time may be adversely affected by the quality or value of the assets collateralizing these credit lines. In addition, in recent years global financial markets have experienced diminished liquidity and lending constraints. Our ability to obtain future and/or increased financing to satisfy our requirements as our business expands could be adversely affected by economic and market conditions, credit availability and lender perception of our Company and industry. However, we currently have no reason to believe that we will not be able to renew or replace our facilities when they reach maturity. · If we fail to observe certain restrictions and covenants under our credit facilities the lenders could refuse to waive such default, terminate the credit facility and demand immediate repayment, which would adversely affect our cash position and materially adversely affect our operations. Our United States revolving credit agreement contains covenants restricting or limiting our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt · create or permit liens on assets · make capital expenditures or investments · pay dividends If we fail to comply with the covenants and other requirements set forth in the credit agreement, we would be in default and would need to negotiate a waiver agreement with the lenders. Failure to agree on such a waiver could result in the lenders terminating the credit agreement and demanding repayment of any outstanding borrowings, which could adversely affect our cash position and adversely affect the availability of financing to us, which could materially impact our operations. · Our European employees are represented by unions or workers’ councils or are employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the U.S. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 5,300 employees, 1,500 of which are located in Europe and Asia. We have workers’ councils representing the employees of our France, Germany, and Netherlands operations, and trade unions representing our employees in Italy and Sweden and elected employee representatives for our employees in the United Kingdom and Spain. Most of these European employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws of the U.S. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For example, most of our employees in Europe are represented by unions or workers’ councils that must approve certain changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. The establishment of our shared services center in Hungary regarding related reductions in force is subject to discussion with and approval of certain of the workers councils. We believe that we have a generally good relationship with these councils and unions. We have entered into consultation processes under local laws at our Germany, France, Netherlands and Italy locations for, among other things, restructuring our operations and effecting reductions in force in connection with implementing our shared services center in Hungary. Although we believe that we have a good working relationship with our employees, a strike, work stoppage or slowdown by our employees or significant dispute with our employees could result in a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs. · We operate retail stores in North America and we must effectively manage our cost structure, such as inventory needs, point of sales systems, personnel and lease expense. We currently have 41 retail stores operating in North America at December 31, 2012. The Company needs to effectively manage its cost structure including the additional inventory needs, retail point of sales IT systems, retail personnel and leased facilities. Future growth in retail will also be dependent on the ability to attract customers and build brand loyalty. The retail computer and consumer electronics business is highly competitive and has narrow gross margins. If we fail to manage our growth and cost structure while maintaining high levels of service and meeting competitive pressures adequately, our business plan may not be achieved and may lead to reduced profitability. 12 Table of Contents · The failure to timely and satisfactorily process manufacturers’ and our own rebate programs could negatively impact our customer satisfaction levels. Similar to other companies in the technology products industry, we advertise manufacturers’ mail-in rebates on many products we sell and, in some cases, offer our own rebates. These rebates are processed through third party vendors and in house. If these rebates are not processed in a timely and satisfactory manner by either third party vendors or our in house operations, our reputation in the marketplace could be negatively impacted. · We may be unable to reduce prices in reaction to competitive pressures, or implement cost reductions or new product line expansion to address gross profit and operating margin pressures; failure to mitigate these pressures could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The computer and consumer electronics industry is highly price competitive and gross profit margins are narrow and variable. The Company’s ability to further reduce prices in reaction to competitive pressure is limited. Additionally, gross margins and operating margins are affected by changes in factors such as vendor pricing, vendor rebate and/or price protection programs, product return rights, and product mix. In 2012 pricing pressure continued to be prevalent in the markets we serve and we expect this to continue. We may not be able to mitigate these pricing pressures and resultant declines in sales and gross profit margin with cost reductions in other areas or expansion into new product lines. If we are unable to proportionately mitigate these conditions our operating results and financial condition may suffer. · We would be exposed to liability, including substantial fines and penalties and, in extreme cases, loss of our ability to accept credit cards, in the event our privacy and data security policies and procedures are inadequate to prevent security breaches of our consumer personal information and credit card information records. In processing our sales orders we often collect personal information and credit card information from our customers. The Company has privacy and data security policies in place which are designed to prevent security breaches, however, if a third party or a rogue employee or employees are able to bypass our network security, “hack into” our systems or otherwise compromise our customers’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability may include claims for identity theft, unauthorized purchases and claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices or other related claims. While the Company believes it conforms to appropriate Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) security standards for its various businesses, any breach involving the loss of credit card information may lead to PCI related fines in the millions of dollars. In the event of a severe breach, credit card providers may prevent our accepting of credit cards. Any such liability related to the aforementioned risks could lead to reduced profitability and damage our brand(s) and/or reputation. · Failure to protect the integrity, security and use of our customers’ information could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers. The use of individually identifiable consumer data is regulated at the state, federal and international levels and we incur costs associated with information security – such as increased investment in technology and the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws. Additionally, our internet operations and website sales depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. While we have taken significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, the efforts of “hackers” and cyber criminals or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and our customers’ personal data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition and could subject us to litigation. · Sales to individual customers expose us to credit card fraud, which impacts our operations. If we fail to adequately protect ourselves from credit card fraud, our operations could be adversely impacted. Failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could increase our expenses. Increased sales to individual consumers, which are more likely to be paid for using a credit card, increases our exposure to fraud. We employ technology solutions to help us detect the fraudulent use of credit card information. However, if we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, we may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, which could adversely affect our business. 13 Table of Contents · Our business is dependent on certain key personnel. Our business depends largely on the efforts and abilities of certain key senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. We do maintain key man insurance policies on one of our executive officers, Lawrence P. Reinhold. · We are subject to litigation risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. These may relate to, for example, patent, trademark or other intellectual property matters, employment law matters product liability, commercial disputes, consumer sales practices, or other matters. In addition, as a public company we could from time to time face claims relating to corporate or securities law matters. The defense and/or outcome of such lawsuits or proceedings could have a material adverse affect on our business. See “Legal Proceedings”. · Our profitability can be adversely affected by changes in our income tax exposure due to changes in tax rates or laws, changes in our effective tax rate due to changes in the mix of earnings among different countries, restrictions on utilization of tax benefits and changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Changes in our income tax expense due to changes in the mix of U.S. and non-U.S. revenues and profitability, changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, restrictions on utilization of tax benefits, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or by material audit assessments. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets, which are primarily in the United States and the United Kingdom, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in those jurisdictions. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audit in our various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. · Changes in accounting standards or practices, as well as new accounting pronouncements or interpretations, may require us to account for and report our financial results in a different manner in the future, which may be less favorable than the manner used historically. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and interpretations of existing accounting rules and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules may adversely affect our reported financial results. · Concentration of Ownership and Control Limits Stockholders Ability to Influence Corporate Actions Richard Leeds, Robert Leeds, and Bruce Leeds (each a director and executive officer of the Company), together with trusts for the benefit of certain members of their respective families and other entities controlled by them, control in excess of 70% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Due to such holdings, the Leeds brothers together with these trusts and entities are able to determine the outcome of virtually all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, the appointment of management, amendment of our articles of incorporation, significant corporate transactions (such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets), the payments of dividends on our common stock and the entering into of extraordinary transactions. Further, as a "controlled company" under NYSE rules, the Company has elected to opt-out of certain New York Stock Exchange listing standards that, among other things, require listed companies to have a majority of independent directors on their board; the Company does however currently have an independent Audit, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees. · Risk of Thin Trading and Volatility of our Common Stock Could Impact Stockholder Value Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE and is thinly traded. Volatility of thinly traded stocks is typically higher than the volatility of more liquid stocks with higher trading volumes. The trading of relatively small quantities of shares of common stock by our stockholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. This may result in volatility in our stock price and could exacerbate the other volatility-inducing factors described below. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of being thinly traded. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 