Risk Factors. There are a number of factors and variables described below that may affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Other factors of which we are currently not aware or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our results of operations and financial position. Risks Related to Our Industry • Economic conditions have affected and could continue to adversely affect our revenues and profits. Both we and our customers are subject to global political, economic and market conditions, including inflation, interest rates, energy costs, the impact of natural disasters, military action and the threat of terrorism. Our consolidated results of operations are directly affected by economic conditions in North America and Europe. We may experience a decline in sales as a result of poor economic conditions and the lack of visibility relating to future orders. Our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volumes with existing customers, our ability to attract new customers and the financial condition of our customers. A decline in the economy that adversely affects our customers, causing them to limit or defer their spending, would likely adversely affect us as well. We cannot predict with any certainty whether we will be able to maintain or improve upon historical sales volumes with existing customers, or whether we will be able to attract new customers. In response to economic and market conditions, from time to time we have undertaken initiatives to reduce our cost structure where appropriate. The initiatives already implemented as well as any future workforce and facilities reductions undertaken may not be sufficient to meet the changes in economic and market conditions and to achieve future profitability. In addition, costs actually incurred in connection with our restructuring actions may be higher than our estimates of such costs and/or may not lead to the anticipated cost savings. • Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may impact our results of operations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we would not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and listing requirements subsequently adopted by the New York Stock Exchange in response to Sarbanes-Oxley, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These developments have already substantially increased our legal compliance, auditing and financial reporting costs and made them more time consuming. We anticipate that the Company will be subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of December 31, 2007, and that costs will further increase and make some compliance activities more time consuming. These developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage, possibly making it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. We presently cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result of the implementation of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; however, to the extent these costs are significant, our general and administrative expenses are likely to increase as a percentage of revenue and our results of operations will be negatively impacted. • Competitive pressures could harm our revenue and gross margin. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive and subject to constant technological change. We expect this competition to further intensify in the future. Competitive factors include price, availability, service and support. We compete with a wide variety of other resellers and retailers, as well as manufacturers. Some of our competitors are larger companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than ours. In addition, new competitors may enter our markets. This may place us at a disadvantage in responding to competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives, resulting in our inability to increase our revenues or maintain our gross margins in the future. In many cases our products compete directly with those offered by other manufacturers and distributors. If any of our competitors were to develop products or services that are more cost-effective or technically superior, demand for our product offerings could decrease. Our gross margins are also dependent on the mix of products we sell and could be adversely affected by a continuation of our customers’ shift to lower-priced products. As do most other companies in the technology products industry, we advertise manufacturers’ mail-in rebates on many products we sell and, in some cases, offer our own rebates. We process these rebates through third party vendors and in house. If we are unable to fulfill these rebates in a timely and satisfactory manner, our reputation in the marketplace could be negatively impacted. • State and local sales tax collection may affect demand for our products. Our United States subsidiaries collect and remit sales tax in states in which the subsidiaries have physical presence or in which we believe nexus exists which obligates us to collect sales tax. Other states may, from time to time, claim that we have state-related activities constituting a sufficient nexus to require such collection. Additionally, many other states seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on companies that sell goods to customers in their state, or directly to the state and its political subdivisions, even without a physical presence. Such efforts by states have increased recently, as states seek to raise revenues without increasing the tax burden on residents. We rely on United States Supreme Court decisions which hold that, without Congressional authority, a state may not enforce a sales tax collection obligation on a company that has no physical presence in the state and whose only contacts with the state are through the use of interstate commerce such as the mailing of catalogs into the state and the delivery of goods by mail or common carrier. We cannot predict whether the nature or level of contacts we have with a particular state will be deemed enough to require us to collect sales tax in that state nor can we be assured that Congress or individual states will not approve legislation authorizing states to impose tax collection obligations on all direct mail and/or e-commerce transactions. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales tax on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales and would result in considerable administrative burdens and costs for us and may reduce demand for our products from customers in such states when we charge customers for such taxes. • Business disruptions could adversely impact our revenue and financial condition. We insure for certain property and casualty risks consisting primarily of physical loss to property, business interruptions resulting from property losses, workers’ compensation, comprehensive general liability, and auto liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic property and casualty exposures as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is reasonable, significant events such as acts of war and terrorism, economic conditions, judicial decisions, legislation, natural disasters and large losses could materially affect our insurance obligations and future expense. • Changes in financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and interpretations of existing accounting rules and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, such as the implementation of Financial Accounting Standard Board Interpretation No. 48 (“Fin 48”) “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109)", may adversely affect our reported financial results. Fin 48 which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, was issued to clarify the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements by prescribing a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, of this pronouncement. Risks Related to Our Company • We may not be able to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we were not subject to the internal controls certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 because we were not an accelerated filer as defined by the SEC. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we will be subject to the requirements of Section 404 that management provide an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm will be required to audit that assessment. We are working to achieve compliance with the requirements of Section 404. We will be dedicating substantial time and resources to documentation and review of our procedures and we will have to devote substantial time and resources to this effort in 2007. We may also need to engage outside consultants to assist us. We have not completed this process or its assessment, due to the complexities of our decentralized structure, the number of accounting systems in use, and the lack of qualified personnel to devote to the process. In addition to the significant deficiencies reported as of December 31, 2006 discussed under the caption “Disclosure Controls and Procedures” in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures; we have identified numerous other internal control deficiencies that may affect the timeliness and accuracy of recording transactions and which, individually or in the aggregate, could become material weaknesses in future periods if not remediated. If we are not successful in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we could lose the confidence of our investors. • In the past we have been late filing our required financial reports. Any such delays in the future could affect the trading of our stock. We were late in the filing of our 2005 quarterly and annual reports and our 2006 quarterly reports required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Failure to file required reports on a timely basis could result in the de-listing of the Company’s common stock by the New York Stock Exchange. If we do not file our required annual and quarterly financial statements in the prescribed time frames we would also be ineligible to file certain registration statements and could be subject to SEC enforcement action. • Our success is dependent upon the availability of credit and financing. We require significant levels of capital in our business to finance accounts receivable and inventory. We maintain credit facilities in the United States and in Europe to finance increases in our working capital if available cash is insufficient. The amount of credit available to us at any point in time may be adversely affected by the quality or value of the assets collateralizing these credit lines. In addition, if we are unable to renew or replace these facilities at maturity our liquidity and capital resources may be adversely affected. However, we currently have no reason to believe that we will not be able to renew or replace our facilities when they reach maturity. • We have substantial international operations and we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and political uncertainties. We operate internationally and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Risks inherent to operating overseas include: • • • • Changes in a country’s economic or political conditions Changes in foreign currency exchange rates Difficulties with staffing and managing international operations Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements For example, we currently have operations located in nine countries outside the United States, and non-U.S. sales (Europe and Canada) accounted for 37.5% of our revenue during 2006. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro and British pound, our European revenues and profits will be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars. • Sales to individual consumers exposes us to credit card fraud, which could adversely affect our business. Failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could increase our expenses. Increased sales to individual consumers, which are more likely to be paid for using a credit card, increases our exposure to fraud. We employ technology solutions to help us detect the fraudulent use of credit card information. However, if we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, we may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, which could adversely affect our business. • We are exposed to inventory risks. A substantial portion of our inventory is subject to risk due to technological change and changes in market demand for particular products. If we fail to manage our inventory of older products we may have excess or obsolete inventory. We may have limited rights to return purchases to certain suppliers and we may not be able to obtain price protection on these items. The elimination of purchase return privileges and lack of availability of price protection could lower our gross margin or result in inventory write-downs. We also take advantage of attractive product pricing by making opportunistic bulk inventory purchases; any resulting excess and/or obsolete inventory that we are not able to re-sell could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Any inability to make such bulk inventory purchases may significantly impact our sales and profitability. • Our income tax rate and the value of our deferred tax assets are subject to change. Changes in our income tax expense due to changes in the mix of U.S. and non-U.S. revenues and profitability, changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or by material audit assessments. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets, which are primarily in the United States and the United Kingdom, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in those jurisdictions. Our United Kingdom deferred tax assets currently have a full valuation allowance. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability. • Our reliance on information and communications technology requires significant expenditures and entails risk. We rely on a variety of information and telecommunications systems in our operations. Our success is dependent in large part on the accuracy and proper use of our information systems, including our telecommunications systems. To manage our growth, we continually evaluate the adequacy of our existing systems and procedures. We anticipate that we will regularly need to make capital expenditures to upgrade and modify our management information systems, including software and hardware, as we grow and the needs of our business change. The occurrence of a significant system failure, electrical or telecommunications outages or our failure to expand or successfully implement new systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our information systems networks, including our web sites, and applications could be adversely affected by viruses or worms and may be vulnerable to malicious acts such as hacking. Although we take preventive measures, these procedures may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. • We are dependent on third-party suppliers. We purchase a significant portion of our computer products from major distributors such as Tech Data Corporation and Ingram Micro Inc. and directly from large manufacturers such as Hewlett Packard and Acer, who may deliver those products directly to our customers. These relationships enable us to make available to our customers a wide selection of products without having to maintain large amounts of inventory. The termination or interruption of our relationships with any of these suppliers could materially adversely affect our business. Our PC products contain electronic components, subassemblies and software that in some cases are supplied through sole or limited source third-party suppliers, some of which are located outside of the U.S. Although we do not anticipate any problems procuring supplies in the near-term, there can never be any assurance that parts and supplies will be available in a timely manner and at reasonable prices. Any loss of, or interruption of supply, from key suppliers may require us to find new suppliers. This could result in production or development delays while new suppliers are located, which could substantially impair operating results. If the availability of these or other components used in the manufacture of our products was to decrease, or if the prices for these components were to increase significantly, operating costs and expenses could be adversely affected. We purchase a number of our products from vendors outside of the United States. Difficulties encountered by one or several of these suppliers could halt or disrupt production and delay completion or cause the cancellation of our orders. Delays or interruptions in the transportation network could result in loss or delay of timely receipt of product required to fulfill customer orders. Many product suppliers provide us with co-op advertising support in exchange for featuring their products in our catalogs and on our internet sites. Certain suppliers provide us with other incentives such as rebates, reimbursements, payment discounts, price protection and other similar arrangements. These incentives are offset against cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses, as applicable. The level of co-op advertising support and other incentives received from suppliers may decline in the future, which could increase our cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses and have an adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows. • We may encounter risks in connection with sales of our web-hosted software application. In 2004, we introduced our web-based and hosted, on-demand software suite of products, marketed as PCS ProfitCenter Software™. We have a limited operating history with this type of product offering and may encounter risks inherent in the software industry, including but not limited to: • • • • • • • • • Failure to implement effective general and application controls Errors or security flaws in our product Technical difficulties which we can not resolve on a timely or cost-effective basis, Inability to provide the level of service we commit to Inability to deliver product upgrades and enhancements Delays in development Inability to hire and retain qualified technical personnel Impact of privacy laws on the use of our product Exposure to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights • Restrictions and covenants in our credit facility may limit our ability to enter into certain transactions. Our United States/United Kingdom combined revolving credit agreement contains covenants restricting or limiting our ability to, among other things: • • • • incur additional debt create or permit liens on assets make capital expenditures or investments pay dividends If we fail to comply with the covenants and other requirements set forth in the agreement, we will have to negotiate a waiver agreement with the lenders. Failure to enter into such a waiver agreement could adversely affect the availability of financing to us which could materially impact our operations. Other factors that may affect our future results of operations and financial condition include, but are not limited to, unanticipated developments in any one or more of the following areas, as well as other factors which may be detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings: • the effect on us of volatility in the price of paper and periodic increases in postage rates • significant changes in the computer products retail industry, especially relating to the distribution and sale of such products • timely availability of existing and new products • risks involved with e-commerce, including possible loss of business and customer dissatisfaction if outages or other computer-related problems should preclude customer access to us • risks associated with delivery of merchandise to customers by utilizing common delivery services such as the United States Postal Service and United Parcel Service, including possible strikes and contamination • borrowing costs or availability • pending or threatened litigation and investigations • the availability of key personnel Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward looking statements contained in this report, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unexpected events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 