Item 1A. Risk Factors M & F Worldwide’s holding company structure could limit its ability to pay its expenses and dividends on its common stock. M & F Worldwide is a holding company whose only material assets are the stock of its subsidiaries and $87.5 million in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2010. M & F Worldwide conducts all of its operations through its operating subsidiaries. M & F Worldwide’s ability to pay its expenses and dividends on its common stock depends on its cash and cash equivalents and on the payment of dividends and tax sharing payments to it by Harland Clarke Holdings and Mafco Worldwide. Payments to M & F Worldwide by those subsidiaries, in turn, depend upon their consolidated results of operations and cash flows and whether they meet the criteria to make dividend payments under the instruments governing their indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness Our subsidiaries have substantial indebtedness, which may adversely affect our ability to operate our businesses and prevent our subsidiaries from fulfilling their obligations under their respective debt agreements. As of December 31, 2010, Harland Clarke Holdings had total indebtedness of $2,219.7 million (including $4.6 million of capital lease obligations and other indebtedness), and $91.8 million of additional availability under the Harland Clarke Holdings revolving credit facility (after giving effect to the issuance of $8.2 million of letters of credit). As of December 31, 2010, Mafco Worldwide had total indebtedness of $31.0 million and $14.0 million of additional availability under the Mafco Worldwide revolving credit facility. There were no letters of credit issued by Mafco Worldwide as of December 31, 2010. In addition, under certain circumstances, Harland Clarke Holdings is permitted to incur additional term loan and/or revolving credit facility indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount of up to $250.0 million, and the terms of Harland Clarke Holdings’ senior secured credit facilities and notes allow it to borrow substantial additional debt, including additional secured debt. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for our subsidiaries to satisfy their obligations with respect to their indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Holdings has advised the Company that it has pledged shares of M & F Worldwide common stock to secure obligations and that additional shares of M & F Worldwide common stock may from time to time be pledged to secure obligations of Holdings. A default under any of these obligations that are secured by the pledged shares could cause a foreclosure with respect to such shares of common stock. A foreclosure upon any such shares of common stock or dispositions of shares of common stock could, in a sufficient amount, constitute a “change of control” as defined under the Company’s financing agreements, which would permit the Company’s lenders to accelerate amounts outstanding under such indebtedness. Harland Clarke Holdings’ and Mafco Worldwide’s ability to make payments on their indebtedness depends on their ability to generate sufficient cash in the future. Harland Clarke Holdings’ and Mafco Worldwide’s ability to make payments on their respective indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on their ability to generate cash in the future. This 16 Table of Contents is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Harland Clarke Holdings is required to make scheduled payments of principal on its senior secured term loan in the amount of $18.0 million per year in equal quarterly installments. In addition, Harland Clarke Holdings’ term loan facility requires that a portion of its excess cash flow be applied to prepay amounts borrowed under that facility. An excess cash flow payment of approximately $3.5 million will be paid in 2011 with respect to 2010 and will be applied against other mandatory payments due in 2011 under the terms of the facility. No such excess cash flow payment was paid in 2010 with respect to 2009 and no such excess cash flow payment was paid in 2009 with respect to 2008. Harland Clarke Holdings is required to repay its senior secured term loan in full in 2014 and is required to repay its senior notes in 2015. Harland Clarke Holdings’ revolving credit facility will mature in 2013. Borrowings under Mafco Worldwide’s senior secured revolving credit facility are repayable in full on December 15, 2015. Harland Clarke Holdings and Mafco Worldwide may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to them under their respective credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable Harland Clarke Holdings or Mafco Worldwide to repay their debt or to fund their other liquidity needs. If Harland Clarke Holdings’ or Mafco Worldwide’s future cash flow from operations and other capital resources is insufficient to pay their obligations as they mature or to fund their liquidity needs, Harland Clarke Holdings or Mafco Worldwide, as the case may be, may be forced to reduce or delay its business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of its debt on or before maturity. Harland Clarke Holdings or Mafco Worldwide, as the case may be, may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of Harland Clarke Holdings’ and Mafco Worldwide’s existing and future indebtedness may limit their respective ability to pursue any of these alternatives. Despite our subsidiaries’ current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. Additional indebtedness could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of Harland Clarke Holdings’ senior secured credit facilities, the indenture governing Harland Clarke Holdings’ senior notes and the terms of Mafco Worldwide’s credit facilities do not fully prohibit Harland Clarke Holdings or Mafco Worldwide from doing so. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, there was $91.8 million of additional availability under Harland Clarke Holdings’ $100.0 million revolving credit facility (after giving effect to the issuance of $8.2 million of letters of credit) and $14.0 million of additional availability under Mafco Worldwide’s $45.0 million revolving credit facility. There were no letters of credit issued by Mafco Worldwide as of December 31, 2010. Under certain circumstances, Harland Clarke Holdings is permitted to incur additional term loan and/or revolving credit facility indebtedness under its senior secured credit facilities in an aggregate principal amount of up to $250.0 million. In addition, the terms of Harland Clarke Holdings’ senior secured credit facilities and senior notes allow Harland Clarke Holdings to borrow substantial additional debt, including additional secured debt. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Covenant restrictions under our subsidiaries’ indebtedness may limit each subsidiary’s ability to operate its respective business. The indenture governing Harland Clarke Holdings’ senior notes and the agreements governing Harland Clarke Holdings’ and Mafco Worldwide’s respective senior secured credit facilities contain, among other things, covenants that restrict Harland Clarke Holdings’, Mafco Worldwide’s and their respective subsidiaries’ ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The indenture 17 Table of Contents governing the Harland Clarke Holdings senior notes restricts, among other things, Harland Clarke Holdings’ and its subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • make certain investments; • make restricted payments; • pay certain dividends or make other distributions; • incur liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • merge or consolidate or transfer and sell assets. Harland Clarke Holdings’ and Mafco Worldwide’s senior secured credit facilities contain customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on indebtedness, liens, mergers and consolidations, sales of assets, loans, investments, acquisitions, restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, dividends and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries and sale-leaseback transactions. In addition, Harland Clarke Holdings’ and Mafco Worldwide’s respective credit facilities contain covenants requiring them to maintain financial ratios, including, with respect to Harland Clarke Holdings, a maximum consolidated leverage ratio for the benefit of the lenders under its revolving credit facility only and with respect to Mafco Worldwide, a maximum total debt ratio and a minimum consolidated interest expense ratio. These restrictions may limit Harland Clarke Holdings’ and Mafco Worldwide’s ability to operate their respective businesses and may prohibit or limit their ability to enhance their operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Risks Related to Our Business Weak economic conditions and further acceleration of check unit declines may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and profitability and could result in additional impairment charges. The Company has substantial intangible assets, including substantial goodwill arising from previous acquisitions. Goodwill and other intangible assets determined to have an indefinite life are not amortized, but are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. The Company also has a significant amount of property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, such as customer relationships, which are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The impairment test processes are more fully described in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The annual impairment evaluations for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets involve significant estimates and assumptions made by management regarding specific business and operating factors as well as discount rates. Changes in estimates and assumptions, as well as the occurrence of various events or changes in circumstances, could have a material impact on the fair value of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets in future periods, which in turn may result in material asset impairments. Similar considerations apply to any impairment evaluation of our property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets as well as our determinations as to whether interim impairment tests are necessary. The Company periodically updates its long-range business plans and forecasts, which include financial projections that are incorporated in the annual impairment tests. Estimated revenue growth rates for all reporting units may be lower than past projections due to the various factors discussed in this report, including, but not limited to, the following: • the continued adverse economic environment, which may negatively affect future revenue and margins as a result of lower demand and pricing pressure; 18 Table of Contents • check unit declines that have continued at a higher rate than in the past and are expected to continue to decline at higher rates than in recent years, which may negatively affect future revenue for our Harland Clarke segment; and • continued worldwide consumption declines in tobacco products using licorice, which may negatively affect future revenue for our Licorice Products segment. Depending on the nature of these factors and the expected relative magnitude and permanency of their effects, the Company’s businesses may not be able to achieve previous levels of performance even when overall economic conditions improve. During the 2009 annual impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived tradenames, the Company determined the fair value of the Harland Clarke tradename was less than its carrying value due to declines in revenues from check unit volumes that are projected to decline at rates that are higher than recent years and also due to the continuing economic downturn. As a result of this impairment, the useful life of the Harland Clarke tradename was reassessed and determined to no longer be indefinite. Based on an analysis of future cash flows attributable to the Harland Clarke tradename, the Company determined the economic life for the Harland Clarke tradename is 25 years. A non-cash impairment charge of $44.2 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 based on the current fair value of the Harland Clarke tradename being less than its carrying value and the useful life was reclassified from an indefinite life to a life of 25 years. The annual impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived tradenames performed in the fourth quarter of 2010 did not result in further impairments of goodwill and indefinite-lived tradenames. Future impairment tests may result in a determination that there have been additional material asset impairments. Any asset impairment would be reported as a non-cash operating loss, would have a negative effect on the Company’s earnings and total assets, and could have a negative impact on the market prices of the Company’s outstanding securities. Impairment charges in the future would not impact the Company’s consolidated cash flows, current liquidity, capital resources and covenants under its existing credit facilities. Difficult conditions in the financial markets and a general economic downturn may adversely affect the business and results of operations of the Company and we cannot determine if these conditions will improve or worsen in the near future. The economic conditions since late 2008 and the volatility in the financial markets during this period have contributed and may continue to contribute to high unemployment levels, decreased consumer spending, reduced credit availability and/or declining business and consumer confidence. During this period, a number of financial institutions have taken significant write-downs of asset values. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. We cannot determine whether the difficult conditions in the economy in general and/or the financial markets will improve or worsen in the near future. Our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by these difficult conditions. Harland Clarke may experience reduced revenues due to losses of customers in the event the financial institutions upon which it depends either merge with or are sold to other institutions, or fail, or in the event that consumer spending continues to decline, or checking account openings continue to decrease, resulting in further acceleration in the decline of check usage and the use of Harland Clarke’s other products. Similarly, Harland Financial Solutions, which also depends on its financial institution customers, may be adversely affected due to losses of financial institution customers from mergers, consolidations or failures. Reductions in financial institution information technology budgets in response to market difficulties could continue to result in further delays or cancellations of Harland Financial Solutions client purchases, as well as potential pricing pressure on Harland Financial Solutions products. Economic slowdown and liquidity constraints may also cause state and local public and private education budgets to be further reduced, which could continue to result in reduced revenues at Scantron, as well as pricing pressure on Scantron products. In addition, further disruptions in the credit and other financial markets could, among other things, impair the financial condition of suppliers of the Company, thereby increasing the risk of supplier performance. 19 Table of Contents Account data breaches involving stored client data or misuse of such data could adversely affect our reputation, revenues, profits and growth. We, our clients, and other third parties store customer account information relating to our Harland Clarke segment’s checks. In addition, a number of clients use our Harland Financial Solutions products and Scantron products to store and manage sensitive customer and student information. Scantron also provides services which involve the storage of non-public customer information. Any breach of the systems on which sensitive customer data and account information are stored or archived and any misuse by our own employees, by employees of data archiving services or by other unauthorized users of such data could lead to fraudulent activity involving our clients and our financial institution clients’ customers’ information and/or funds, damage the reputation of our brands and result in claims against us. If we are unsuccessful in defending any lawsuit involving such data security breaches or misuse, we may be forced to pay damages, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability and could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and future growth prospects. In addition, such breaches could adversely affect our financial institution clients’ perception as to our reliability, and could lead to the termination of client contracts. Legislation and contracts relating to protection of personal data could limit or harm our future business. We are subject to state and federal laws and regulations regarding the protection of consumer information commonly referred to as “non-public personal information.” Examples include the federal financial modernization law known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the regulations implementing its privacy and information security requirements, as well as other privacy and data security federal and state laws and regulations. We are also subject to additional requirements in many of our contracts with financial institution clients, which are often more restrictive than the regulations. These laws, regulations and agreements require us to develop and implement policies to protect non-public personal information and to disclose these policies to consumers before a customer relationship is established and periodically thereafter. The laws, regulations, and agreements limit our ability to use or disclose non-public personal information for other than the purposes originally intended. Where not preempted by the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, states may enact legislation or regulations that are more restrictive on our use of data. In addition, more restrictive legislation or regulations have been introduced in the past and could be introduced in the future in Congress and the states and could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or prospects. Additionally, future contracts may impose even more stringent requirements on us which could increase our operating costs, as well as interfere with the cost savings we are trying to achieve. We market certain products and services through various distribution media, including direct mail, telemarketing, online marketing, and other methods. These media are subject to increasing regulation, both at the federal and state levels, particularly in the area of consumer privacy. Our ability to solicit or sign up new customers may be affected. The financial services sector is also subject to various federal and state regulations and oversight. As a supplier of services to financial institutions, certain operations of our Harland Clarke and Harland Financial Solutions segments are examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, among other agencies, to confirm our ability to maintain data security. These agencies regulate and audit services we provide and the manner in which we operate, and we are required to comply with a broad range of applicable laws and regulations. Adverse audit findings could impact our ability to continue to render services or require investment in corrective measures. Moreover, current laws and regulations may be amended in the future or interpreted by regulators in a manner which could negatively affect the operations of our Harland Clarke or Harland Financial Solutions segments or limit their future growth. The use of our Scantron products and services to store and manage student and other educational data may be subject to The Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, commonly known as FERPA, which is a federal law that protects the privacy of student education records in connection with Scantron’s web-based assessment services. Many states have enacted similar laws to protect the privacy of student data. The 20 Table of Contents operation of websites by Scantron that are accessed by children under the age of 13 may be subject to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, commonly known as COPPA. The collection of patient data through Scantron’s survey services is subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, commonly known as HIPAA, which protects the privacy of patient data. Scantron is also subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. New laws and regulations may be adopted in the future with respect to the Internet, e-commerce or marketing practices generally relating to consumer privacy. Such laws or regulations may impede the growth of the Internet and/or use of other sales or marketing vehicles. As an example, new privacy laws could decrease traffic to our websites, decrease telemarketing opportunities and decrease the demand for our products and services. Additionally, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing property ownership, taxation, libel and personal privacy is uncertain and may remain uncertain for a considerable length of time. We may experience processing errors or software defects that could harm our business and reputation. We use sophisticated software and computing systems in our Harland Clarke, Harland Financial Solutions and Scantron segments. We may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients. Furthermore, certain financial institution clients of our Harland Clarke segment have integrated certain components of their systems with ours, permitting our operators to effect certain operations directly into our financial institution clients’ customers’ accounts. Errors or delays in the processing of check orders, software defects or other difficulties could result in: • loss of clients; • additional development costs; • diversion of technical and other resources; • negative publicity; or • exposure to liability claims. We may not successfully implement any or all components of our business strategies or realize all of our continued cost savings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. Important components of our business strategies for the businesses operated by Harland Clarke Holdings are to cross-sell between business segments, capitalize on complementary offerings across the client base of our Harland Clarke segment, cross-sell software products into our combined client base, continue focusing on software-enabled testing and assessment products while expanding the offering of survey services to financial institutions, and continue to reduce costs and generate strong cash flow. We may not be able to fully implement any or all components of our business strategies or realize, in whole or in part or within the timeframes anticipated, the efficiency improvements or cost savings from these strategies. These strategies are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Financial industry turmoil and the general economic slowdown may continue to adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategies. Additionally, our business strategies may change from time to time. As a result, we may not be able to achieve our expected results of operations. We may be unable to protect our rights in intellectual property, and third-party infringement or misappropriation may materially adversely affect our profitability. We rely on a combination of measures to protect our intellectual property, among them, contract provisions, registering trademarks and copyrights, patenting inventions, implementing procedures that afford trade secret status and protection to our proprietary information, such as entering into third-party non-disclosure and intellectual property assignment agreements, and maintaining our intellectual property by entering into licenses that grant only limited rights to third parties. We may be required to spend significant resources to protect, monitor and police our trade secrets, proprietary know-how trademarks and other 21 Table of Contents intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties or licensees may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. The confidentiality agreements that are designed to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could be breached, or our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known by others. We may not have adequate remedies for infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights or for breach of our confidentiality agreements. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our business and ability to compete. We may be unable to maintain our licenses to use third-party intellectual property on favorable terms. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products by our Harland Clarke segment bearing third-party trademarks or designs pursuant to royalty-bearing licenses. Typically, these licenses are for a term of between two and three years, and some licenses may be terminated at the licensor’s option upon a change of control. There can be no guarantee that such licenses will be renewed or will continue to be available to us on terms that would allow us to continue to sell the licensed products profitably. Third parties may claim we infringe on their intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us in the future. In particular, there has been a substantial increase in the issuance of patents for Internet-related systems and business methods, which may have broad implications for participants in technology and service sectors. Claims for infringement of these patents are increasingly becoming a subject of litigation. Because patent application information may not always be readily available, there is also a risk that we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, which technology would infringe a third-party patent once that patent is issued. Responding to these infringement claims may require us to enter into royalty-bearing license agreements, to stop selling or to redesign affected products, services and technologies, to pay damages, and/or to satisfy indemnification commitments under agreements with our licensees. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged by third parties, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in the loss of brand recognition. Future litigation relating to infringement claims could also result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of management resources. Adverse determinations in any litigation or proceeding could also subject us to significant liabilities and could prevent us from using some of our products, services or technologies. We are dependent upon third-party providers for significant information technology needs, and an interruption of services from these providers could materially and adversely affect our operations. We have entered into agreements with third-party providers for the licensing of certain software and the provision of information technology services, including software development and support services, and personal computer, telecommunications, network server and help desk services. In the event that one or more of these providers is not able to provide adequate information technology services or terminates a license or service, we would be adversely affected. Although we believe that information technology services and substantially equivalent software and services are available from numerous sources, a failure to perform or a termination by one or more of our service providers could cause a disruption in our business while we obtain an alternative source of supply and we may not be able to find such an alternative source on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We depend upon the talents and contributions of a limited number of individuals, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and the loss or interruption of their services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is largely driven by the personal relationships of our senior management teams. Despite executing employment agreements with certain members of our senior management teams, these individuals may discontinue service with us and we may not be able to find individuals to replace them at the same cost, or at all. We have not obtained “key person” insurance for any member of our senior management teams. The 22 Table of Contents loss or interruption of the services of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face uncertainty with respect to future acquisitions, and unsuitable or unsuccessful acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We have acquired complementary businesses in the past, and we may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses in the future. We cannot predict whether suitable acquisition candidates can be acquired on acceptable terms or whether future acquisitions, even if completed, will be successful. Future acquisitions by us could result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, debt or amortization expenses relating to intangible assets which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the success of any past or future acquisition will depend upon our ability to integrate effectively the acquired businesses. We also cannot predict whether any acquired products, technology or business will contribute to our revenues or earnings to any material extent or whether cost savings and synergies we expect at the time of an acquisition can be realized once the acquisition has been completed. Furthermore, if we incur additional indebtedness to finance an acquisition, we cannot predict whether the acquired business will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service that additional indebtedness. Unsuitable or unsuccessful acquisitions could therefore have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is exposed to changes in interest rates. We are exposed to changes in interest rates on our variable-rate debt. A hypothetical increase of 1 percentage point in the variable component of interest rates applicable to floating rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2010 would have resulted in an increase to interest expense of approximately $9.1 million per year including the effect of interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2010. Adverse interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the success of our research and development and the failure to develop new and improved products could adversely affect our business. We have in the past made, and intend to continue in the future to make, investments in research and development in order to enable us to identify and develop new products. The development process for new products can be lengthy. Despite investments in this area, our research and development may not result in the discovery or successful development of new products. The success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • accurately anticipate and properly identify our customers’ needs and industry trends; • price our products competitively; • innovate, develop and commercialize new products and applications in a timely manner; • obtain necessary regulatory approvals; • differentiate our products from competitors’ products; and • use our research and development budget efficiently. The continuous introduction of new products is important to our growth. Our financial condition could deteriorate if we cannot timely and cost effectively develop and commercialize new products. We may be subject to sales and other taxes, which could have adverse effects on our business. In accordance with current federal, state and local tax laws, and the constitutional limitations thereon, we currently collect sales, use or other similar taxes in state and local jurisdictions where we have a physical 23 Table of Contents presence. One or more state or local jurisdictions may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on us and other out-of-state companies which engage in remote or online commerce. Several states in the United States have taken various initiatives to prompt retailers to collect local and state sales taxes on purchases made over the Internet. Furthermore, tax law and the interpretation of constitutional limitations thereon is subject to change. In addition, any new operations of these businesses in states where they do not currently have a physical presence could subject shipments of goods by these businesses into such states to sales tax under current or future laws. If one or more state or local jurisdictions successfully asserts that we must collect sales or other taxes beyond our current practices, it could have a material, adverse affect on our business. We may be subject to environmental risks, and liabilities for environmental compliance or cleanup could have a material, adverse effect on our profitability. Our operations are subject to many existing and proposed federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of human health and the environment, the violation of which can result in substantial costs and liabilities, including material civil and criminal fines and penalties. Such requirements include those pertaining to air emissions; wastewater discharges; occupational safety and health; the generation, handling, treatment, remediation, use, storage, transport, release, and exposure to hazardous substances and wastes. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such as the federal Superfund statute, the obligation to investigate and remediate contamination at a facility may be imposed on current and former owners or operators or on persons who may have sent waste to that facility for disposal. In addition, environmental laws and regulations, and interpretation or enforcement thereof, are constantly evolving and any such changes could affect the business, financial condition or results of operations. Enforcement of these laws and regulations may require the expenditure of material amounts for environmental compliance or cleanup. The operations of our Harland Clarke segment use hazardous materials in the printing process and generate wastewater and air emissions. Some of our historic check and form printing operations at current and former facilities used hazardous materials in greater quantities. In some instances, we have sold these facilities and agreed to indemnify the buyer of the facility for certain environmental liabilities. We may also be subject to liability under environmental laws and regulations for environmental conditions at our current or former facilities or in connection with the disposal of waste generated at these facilities. Although we are not aware of any fact or circumstance that would require the expenditure of material amounts for environmental compliance or cleanup, if environmental liabilities are discovered at our current or former facilities or at locations where our wastes were disposed, we could be required to spend material amounts for environmental compliance or cleanup. It is generally not possible to predict the ultimate total costs relating to any remediation that may be demanded at any environmental site due to, among other factors, uncertainty regarding the extent of prior pollution, the complexity of applicable environmental laws and regulations and their interpretations, uncertainty regarding future changes to such laws and regulations or their enforcement, the varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies and methods, and the questionable and varying degrees of responsibility and/or involvement by us. Our principal stockholder has significant influence over us. Holdings is a corporation wholly owned by Mr. Ronald O. Perelman. Mr. Perelman, directly and through Holdings, beneficially owned, as of December 31, 2010, approximately 43.4% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, three of our directors, as well as the senior executives of M & F Worldwide, are affiliated with Holdings. As a result, Holdings and its sole stockholder possess significant influence over our business decisions. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Harland Clarke Segment The paper check industry overall is a mature industry and check usage is declining. Our business will be harmed if check usage declines faster than expected. Check and related products and services, including delivery services, account for most of our revenues. The check industry overall is a mature industry. The number of checks written in the United States has declined in recent years, and we believe that it will continue to decline due to the increasing use of alternative payment methods, including credit cards, debit cards, smart cards, automated teller machines, direct deposit, wire transfers, electronic, home banking applications, Internet based payment services and other bill paying services. The actual rate and extent to which alternative payment methods will achieve consumer acceptance and replace checks, whether as a result of legislative developments, personal preference or otherwise, cannot be predicted with certainty and could decline at a more rapid rate. Changes in technology or the widespread adoption of current technologies may also make alternative payment methods more popular. An increase in the use of any of these alternative payment methods could have a material adverse effect on the demand for checks and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. In recent years, Harland Clarke has experienced check unit declines at a higher rate than in the past, as evidenced by recent period-over-period declines in Harland Clarke revenue. Harland Clarke is unable to determine at this time whether these higher rates of decline are attributable to economic and financial market difficulties, the depth and length of the economic recession, higher unemployment, decreased openings of checking accounts, changing business strategies of our financial institution clients, decreased consumer spending and/or a further acceleration in the use of alternative non-cash payments. Harland Clarke expects that check unit volume will continue to decline at rates that are higher than it had previously experienced in recent years, resulting in a corresponding decrease in check revenues and depending on the nature and relative magnitude of the causes for the decreases, such decreases may not be mitigated when overall economic conditions improve. Harland Clarke is focused on growing its non-check related products and services, including marketing services, and optimizing its existing catalog of offerings to better serve its clients, as well as managing its costs, overhead and facilities to reflect the decline in check unit volumes. Harland Clarke does not believe that revenues from non-check related products and services will fully offset revenue declines from declining check unit volumes. In the future, Harland Clarke may not be able to mitigate the revenue declines from declining check unit volumes through cost management, which could negatively affect Harland Clarke’s margins. Consolidation among financial institutions may adversely affect our relationships with our clients and our ability to sell our products and may therefore result in lower revenues and profitability. Mergers, acquisitions and personnel changes at financial institutions, as well as failures or liquidations of such financial institutions, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, financial institutions accounted for approximately 83% of revenues for our Harland Clarke segment. In recent years, the number of financial institutions has declined due to consolidation. Consolidation among financial institutions could cause us to lose current and potential clients as such clients are, for example, acquired by financial institutions with pre-existing relationships with other providers. The increase in general negotiating strength possessed by such consolidated entities also presents a risk that new and/or renewed contracts with these institutions may not be secured on terms as favorable as those historically negotiated with these clients. Consolidation among or failure of financial institutions could therefore decrease our revenues and profitability. We are dependent on a few large clients, and adverse changes in our relationships with these highly concentrated clients may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The majority of sales from our Harland Clarke segment has been, and very likely will continue to be, concentrated among a small group of clients. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the top 20 clients of our Harland Clarke segment represented approximately 43% of its revenues, with sales to Bank of America and Wells Fargo representing a significant portion of revenues. A number of contracts with Harland Clarke segment clients may be terminated by the client for convenience upon written notice or “for cause.” A significant decrease or interruption in business from any of our Harland Clarke segment significant clients, or 25 Table of Contents the termination of our contracts with any of our most significant clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our financial results can also be adversely affected by the business practices and actions of our large clients in a number of ways, including timing, size and mix of product orders and supply chain management. Several contracts with our significant clients expire over the next several years. We may not be able to renew them on terms favorable to us, or at all. The loss of one or more of these clients or a shift in the demand by, distribution methods of, pricing to, or terms of sale to, one or more of these clients could materially adversely affect us. The write-off of any significant receivable due from delays in payment or return of products by any of our significant clients could also adversely impact our revenues and profitability. We face intense competition and pricing pressures in certain areas of our business, which could result in lower revenues, higher costs and lower profitability. The check printing industry is intensely competitive. In addition to competition from alternative payment methods, we also face considerable competition from other check printers and other similar providers of printed products. The principal factors on which we compete are service, convenience, quality, product range and price. We may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors, which could result in lower revenues, higher costs and lower profitability. Interruptions or adverse changes in our vendor or supplier relationships or delivery services could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have strong relationships with many of the country’s largest paper mills and ink suppliers. These relationships afford us certain purchasing advantages, including stable supply and favorable pricing arrangements. Our supplier arrangements are by purchase order and terminable at will at the option of either party. While we have been able to obtain sufficient paper supplies during recent paper shortages and otherwise, in part through purchases from foreign suppliers, we are subject to the risk that we will be unable to purchase sufficient quantities of paper to meet our production requirements during times of tight supply. An interruption in our relationship with service providers for our digital printers could compromise our ability to fulfill pending orders for checks and related products. In addition, disruptions in the credit and other financial markets could, among other things, impair the financial condition of suppliers of the Company, thereby increasing the risk of supplier performance. Any interruption in supplies or service from these or other vendors or suppliers or delivery services could result in a disruption to our business if we are unable to readily find alternative service providers at comparable rates. Increased production and delivery costs, such as fluctuations in paper costs, could materially adversely affect our profitability. Increases in production costs such as paper and labor could adversely affect our profitability, our business, our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the principal raw material used by our Harland Clarke segment is paper. Rising inflation may cause our material and delivery costs to rise. Any significant increase in paper prices as a result of a short supply or otherwise would adversely affect our costs. In addition, disruptions in parcel deliveries or increases in delivery rates, which are often tied to fuel prices, could also increase our costs. Our contracts with clients in our Harland Clarke segment may contain certain restrictions on our ability to pass on to clients increased production costs or price increases. In addition, competitive pressures in the check industry may have the effect of inhibiting our ability to reflect these increased costs in the prices of our products and services. Softness in direct mail response rates could have an adverse impact on our operating results. The direct-to-consumer business of our Harland Clarke segment has experienced declines in response and retention rates related to direct mail promotional materials. We believe that these declines are attributable to a number of factors, including the decline in check usage, the overall increase in direct mail solicitations received by our target customers, and the multi-box promotional strategies employed by us and our 26 Table of Contents competitors. To offset these factors, we may have to modify and/or increase our marketing efforts, which could result in increased expense. The profitability of the direct-to-consumer business of our Harland Clarke segment depends in large part on our ability to secure adequate advertising media placements at acceptable rates, as well as the consumer response rates generated by such advertising. Suitable advertising media may not be available at a reasonable cost, or available at all. Furthermore, the advertising we utilize may not be effective. Competitive pricing pressure may inhibit our ability to reflect any of these increased costs in the prices of our products. We may not be able to sustain our current levels of profitability as a result. Risks Related to our Harland Financial Solutions and Scantron Segments If we fail to continually improve our Harland Financial Solutions and Scantron products, effectively manage our product offerings and introduce new products and service offerings, our business may suffer. Harland Financial Solutions’ and Scantron’s businesses are affected by technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in client requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The businesses of providing technological solutions to financial institutions, educational organizations and other enterprises have been and continue to be intensely competitive, requiring us to continually improve our existing products and create new products while at the same time controlling our costs. We face intense competition from a number of multi-national, international, national, regional and local providers of software and services, some of whom may have greater financial and other resources than we have, greater familiarity with our prospective clients than we do, or the ability to offer more attractive products and services than we do. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to: • continue to enhance and expand existing Harland Financial Solutions and Scantron products and services; • make Harland Financial Solutions and Scantron products compatible with future and existing operating systems and applications that achieve popularity within the business application marketplace, including current and future versions of Windows, Unix and IBM iSeries; • engage in new business initiatives; and • develop and introduce new products and new services that satisfy increasingly sophisticated client requirements, keep pace with technological and regulatory developments, provide client value and are attractive to customers. We may not successfully anticipate and develop product enhancements or new products and services to adequately address changing technologies and client requirements. Any such products, solutions or services may not be successful or may not generate expected revenues or cash flow, and the business and results of operations of our Harland Financial Solutions and Scantron businesses may be materially and adversely affected as a result. The revenues, cash flows and results of operations of our Harland Financial Solutions segment may be reduced if we need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms on our products and services to meet competitive pressures in the software industry. Providing technological solutions to financial institutions has been and continues to be intensely competitive. Some of our competitors have advantages over Harland Financial Solutions due to their significant worldwide presence, longer operating and product development history, larger installed client base, and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. In response to competition, Harland Financial Solutions has been required in the past, and may be required in the future, to furnish additional discounts to clients, otherwise modify pricing practices or offer more favorable payment terms or more favorable contractual implementation terms. These developments have and may increasingly negatively affect the revenues, cash flows and results of operations of the Harland Financial Solutions business. 27 Table of Contents Consolidation among financial institutions may adversely affect our relationships with Harland Financial Solutions clients and our ability to sell our products and may therefore result in lower revenues and profitability. Mergers, acquisitions and personnel changes at financial institutions, as well as failures or liquidations of such financial institutions, may adversely affect our Harland Financial Solutions business, financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, financial institutions accounted for substantially all of our Harland Financial Solutions segment revenues. In recent years, the number of financial institutions has declined due to consolidation. Consolidation among financial institutions could cause us to lose current and potential clients as such clients are, for example, acquired by financial institutions with pre-existing relationships with other providers. The increase in general negotiating strength possessed by such consolidated entities also presents a risk that new and/or renewed contracts with these institutions may not be secured on terms as favorable as those historically negotiated with these clients. Consolidation among or failure of financial institutions could therefore decrease our revenues and profitability. Downturns in general economic and industry conditions, enhanced regulatory burdens and reductions in information technology budgets could cause decreases in demand for our software and related services which could negatively affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. Our revenues, cash flows and results of operations depend on the overall demand for our products, software and related services. Economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which we do business and enhanced regulatory burdens, including through increased fees and assessments charged to financial institutions by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and National Credit Union Administration (“NCUA”) or due to recently enacted federal legislation for additional taxes on certain financial institutions, could result in reductions in the information technology budgets for some portion of our clients and potentially longer lead-times for acquiring Harland Financial Solutions products and services. Such reductions and longer lead times could result in delays or cancellations of client purchases and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Recent financial industry turmoil and the general economic slowdown may adversely affect our financial institution clients’ ability or willingness to commit financial resources to our products, and spending decisions by these clients may continue to be delayed. Prolonged economic slowdowns may result in clients requiring us to renegotiate existing contracts on less advantageous terms than those currently in place or default on payments due on existing contracts. As our software offerings increase in number, scope and complexity, our need to prevent any undetected errors and to correct any identified errors may increase our costs, slow the introduction of new products and we may become subject to warranty or product liability claims which could be costly to resolve and result in negative publicity. Although our Harland Financial Solutions and Scantron businesses test each of their new products and product enhancement releases and evaluate and test the products obtained through acquisition before introducing them to customers, significant errors may be found in existing or future releases of our software products, and vulnerability to cyber attacks may arise, with the possible result that significant resources and expenditures may be required in order to correct such errors or otherwise satisfy client demands. In addition, defects in our products or difficulty integrating our products with our clients’ systems could result in delayed or lost revenues, warranty or other claims against us by clients or third parties, adverse client reaction and negative publicity about us or our products and services or reduced acceptance of our products and services in the marketplace, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Errors, defects or other performance problems of our products could result in harm or damage to our clients and expose us to liability, which may adversely affect our business and operating results. Because our clients may use our products for mission critical applications, errors, defects or other performance problems may cause financial or other damages to our clients and result in claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such errors, defects or other performance problems. 28 Table of Contents For example, Harland Financial Solutions has been named in at least one lawsuit challenging certain provisions in Harland Financial Solutions’ lending products. The terms of our contracts with our clients are generally designed to limit our liability for errors, defects or other performance problems and damages relating to such errors, defects or other performance problems, but these provisions may not be enforced by a court or otherwise effectively protect us from legal claims. Our liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all of the costs resulting from these legal claims. Our current liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms and insurers may deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion against us of one or more large claims that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or coinsurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, even if we succeed in the litigation, we are likely to incur additional costs and our management’s attention might be diverted from our normal operations. Failure to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified information technology professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business of delivering professional information technology services is labor intensive, and, accordingly, our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate, retain and effectively utilize highly skilled information technology professionals. We believe that there is a growing shortage of, and significant competition for, information technology professionals in the United States who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to deliver our services, and that such information technology professionals are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. We also plan to manage and grow software development operations internationally related to Harland Financial Solutions and Scantron. We believe that, as a result of these factors, we operate within an industry that experiences a significant rate of annual turnover of information technology personnel. Our business plans are based on hiring and training a significant number of additional information technology professionals each year to meet anticipated turnover and increased staffing needs. Our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and to obtain new business depends, in large part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified information technology professionals. We may not be able to recruit and train a sufficient number of qualified information technology professionals, and we may not be successful in retaining current or future employees. Increased hiring by technology companies and increasing worldwide competition for skilled technology professionals may lead to a shortage in the availability of qualified personnel in the markets in which we operate and hire. Failure to hire and train or retain qualified information technology professionals in sufficient numbers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts. Developing and localizing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. Our future plans include significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, but future revenues from these investments are not fully predictable. Therefore, we may not realize any benefits from our research and development efforts in a timely fashion or at all. Our Harland Financial Solutions segment provides services to clients that are subject to government regulations that could constrain its operations. The financial services sector is subject to various federal and state regulations and oversight. As a supplier of services to financial institutions, certain Harland Financial Solutions operations are examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the FDIC and the NCUA, among other agencies. These agencies regulate services we provide and the manner in which we operate, and we are required to comply with a broad range of applicable laws and regulations. Current laws and regulations may be amended in the future or 29 Table of Contents interpreted by regulators in a manner which could negatively affect our current Harland Financial Solutions’ operations or limit its future growth. We may not be able to successfully develop new products and services for our Scantron segment, and those products and services may not receive widespread acceptance. As a result, the business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition of Scantron could be materially and adversely affected. The data collection and educational testing industry has also changed significantly during recent years due to technological advances and regulatory changes, and we must successfully develop new products and solutions in our Scantron segment to respond to those changes. Scantron must continue to keep pace with changes in testing and data collection technology and the needs of its clients. The development of new testing methods and technologies depends on the timing and costs of the development effort, product performance, functionality, customer acceptance, adoption rates and competition, all of which could have a negative effect on our business. If we are not able to adopt new electronic data collection solutions at a rate that keeps pace with other technological advances, the business, business prospects, results of operations and financial condition of Scantron could be materially and adversely affected. Budget deficits may reduce funding available for Scantron products and services and have a negative effect on our revenue. Our Scantron segment derives a significant portion of its revenues from public schools and colleges, which are heavily dependent on local, state and federal governments for financial support. Government budget deficits, including deficits arising from the current economic slowdown, may have a negative effect on the availability of funding for Scantron products. Budget deficits experienced by schools or colleges may also cause those institutions to react negatively to future price increases for Scantron products. If budget deficits significantly reduce funding available for Scantron products and services, our revenue could be adversely affected. If we are not able to obtain paper and other supplies at acceptable quantities and prices, our revenue could be adversely affected. Our Scantron segment purchases a majority of its paper from one supplier. Scantron purchases scanner components from equipment manufacturers, supply firms and others. Scantron may not be able to purchase those supplies in adequate quantities or at acceptable prices. Rising inflation will also cause Scantron’s material and delivery costs to rise. If Scantron is forced to obtain paper and other supplies at higher prices or lower quantities, our profitability could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Mafco Worldwide’s Business and Industry Mafco Worldwide’s business is heavily dependent on sales to the worldwide tobacco industry, and negative developments and trends within the tobacco industry could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2010, approximately 63% of Mafco Worldwide’s licorice sales and 4% of the Company’s consolidated net revenues were to the worldwide tobacco industry for use as tobacco flavor enhancing and moistening agents in the manufacture of American blend cigarettes, moist snuff, chewing tobacco and pipe tobacco. Negative developments and trends within the tobacco industry, such as those described below, could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The tobacco industry has been subject to increased governmental taxation and regulation and in recent years has been subject to substantial litigation. These trends are likely to continue and it is likely that these trends will negatively affect tobacco product consumption and tobacco product manufacturers. Producers of tobacco products are subject to regulation in the United States at the federal, state and local levels, as well as in foreign countries. In 2009, the United States government enacted the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, which provides greater regulatory oversight for the manufacture of 30 Table of Contents tobacco products, including the ability to regulate tobacco product additives. As a result, the United States Food & Drug Administration has the power to limit the type or quantity of additives that may be used in the manufacture of tobacco products in the United States. Similarly, countries outside the United States have rules restricting the use of various ingredients in tobacco products. During 2005, the World Health Organization promulgated its Framework Convention for Tobacco Control (the “FCTC”). The FCTC is the first international public health treaty and establishes a global agenda for tobacco regulation in order to limit the use of tobacco products. More than 160 countries, as well as the European Union, have become parties to the FCTC. In November 2010, the governing body of the FCTC issued guidelines that provide non-binding recommendations to restrict or ban flavorings and additives that increase the attractiveness of tobacco products and require tobacco product manufacturers to disclose ingredient information to public health authorities who would then determine whether such ingredients increase attractiveness. The European Commission and individual governments are also considering regulations to further restrict or ban various cigarette ingredients. Future tobacco product regulations may be influenced by these FCTC recommendations. In October 2009, the Canadian federal government adopted a law that banned virtually all flavor ingredients in cigarettes and little cigars. Certain tobacco-related businesses have contended that the Canadian law effectively bans the sale in Canada of traditional American blend cigarettes containing licorice extract. Over the years, there has been substantial litigation between tobacco product manufacturers and individuals, various governmental units and private health care providers regarding increased medical expenditures and losses allegedly caused by use of tobacco products. Some of this litigation has been settled through the payment of substantial amounts to various state governments, and United States cigarette companies significantly increased the wholesale price of cigarettes in order to recoup a portion of the settlement cost. Cigarette companies have also sought to offset the cost of these payments by changing product formulations and introducing new products with decreased ingredient costs. There may be an increase in health-related litigation against the tobacco industry, and it is possible that Mafco Worldwide, as a supplier to the tobacco industry, may become a party to such litigation. This litigation, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide. The tobacco business, including the sale of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco, has been subject to federal, state, local and foreign excise taxes for many years. In recent years, federal, state, local and foreign governments have increased such taxes as a means of both raising revenue and discouraging the consumption of tobacco products. In February 2009, the United States government enacted the State Children’s Health Insurance Program. The health programs in this legislation are being funded by an increase in the federal tax on cigarettes to $1.0066 per pack from the previous $0.39 per pack and by significant increases in federal taxes on cigars and other tobacco products. Other proposals to increase taxes on tobacco products are also regularly introduced in the United States and foreign countries. Additional taxes may lead to an accelerated decline in tobacco product sales. Mafco Worldwide is unable to predict whether there will be additional price or tax increases for tobacco products or the size of any such increases, or the effect of other developments in tobacco regulation or litigation or consumer attitudes on further declines in the consumption of either tobacco products containing licorice extract or on sales of licorice extract to the tobacco industry. Further material declines in sales to the tobacco industry are likely to have a significant negative effect on the financial performance of Mafco Worldwide. Consumption of tobacco products worldwide has declined steadily for years. Changing public attitudes toward tobacco products, an increased emphasis on the public health aspects of tobacco product consumption, increases in excise and other taxes on tobacco products and a constant expansion of tobacco regulations in a number of countries have contributed significantly to this worldwide decline in consumption. Moreover, the trend is toward increasing regulation of the tobacco industry and taxation of tobacco products. Restrictive tobacco legislation has also included restrictions on where and how 31 Table of Contents tobacco may be sold and used, imposition of warning labels and other graphic packaging images and, recently, restrictions on tobacco product ingredients. Publicly available information suggests that the annual cigarette consumption decline is well over 4% on a worldwide basis and has accelerated in recent years. This accelerated rate of decline was due to all the factors mentioned in the discussion above. Tobacco products other than cigarettes, mainly chewing tobacco and moist snuff, also contain licorice extract and consumption of these products is concentrated primarily in the United States. Domestic consumption of chewing tobacco products has declined by approximately 7% per year over the past five years. Moist snuff consumption has increased approximately 5% per year over the past five years due at least in part to the shift away from cigarettes and other types of smoking and smokeless tobacco. Changes in consumer preferences could decrease Mafco Worldwide’s revenues and cash flow. Mafco Worldwide is subject to the risks of evolving consumer preferences and nutritional and health-related concerns. A portion of Mafco Worldwide’s revenues are derived from the sale of licorice to worldwide confectioners. To the extent that consumer preferences shift away from licorice-flavored candy, operating results relating to the sale of licorice to worldwide confectioners could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a portion of Mafco Worldwide’s revenues are derived from the sale of licorice derivatives to food processors for use as flavoring or masking agents, including Mafco Worldwide’s Magnasweet brand flavor enhancer, which is used in various brands of chewing gum, lip balm, energy bars, non-carbonated beverages, chewable vitamins, aspirin, and other products and is identified in the United States as a natural flavor. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that use licorice derivatives, operating results relating to the sale of licorice derivatives could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in regulations regarding licorice confection may reduce Mafco Worldwide’s sales and profits. Licorice confections are primarily purchased by consumers in the European Union. During 2009, the European Union issued regulations that imposed limitations on certain chemical substances commonly found in licorice root and licorice extracts. These regulations were effective beginning July 2010 and could result in decreased demand for Mafco Worldwide’s products from its confectionery customers in the European Union in the future. Sales of licorice extracts to confectionery customers in the European Union totaled $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Competition and consolidation in the specialty sweetener industry may reduce Mafco Worldwide’s sales and profit margins. The non-nutritive sweetener industry is a highly competitive industry. Mafco Worldwide competes with companies that have greater capital resources, facilities and diversity of product lines. Increased competition as to Mafco Worldwide’s products could result in decreased demand for its products, reduced volumes and/or prices, each of which would reduce Mafco Worldwide’s sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Mafco Worldwide’s margins are also under pressure from consolidation in the retail food industry in many regions of the world. In the United States, Mafco Worldwide’s customers may experience a shift in the channels where consumers purchase their products from the higher margin retail to the lower margin club and mass merchandisers. Such consolidation may significantly increase Mafco Worldwide’s customers’ costs of doing business and may further result in lower sales of its products and/or lower margins on sales. Any failure to comply with the many laws applicable to Mafco Worldwide’s business may result in significant fines and penalties. Mafco Worldwide’s facilities and products are subject to laws and regulations administered by the Federal Food and Drug Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to 32 Table of Contents the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products. Mafco Worldwide’s failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject it to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of Mafco Worldwide’s products. Mafco Worldwide’s operations are also subject to regulations administered by the Environmental Protection Agency and other state, local and foreign governmental agencies. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. In addition to these possible fines and penalties, changes in laws and regulations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions, including changes in food and drug laws, accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations) and environmental laws could have a significant adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s results of operations. Mafco Worldwide is heavily dependent on certain of its customers for a significant percentage of its net revenues. In 2010, Mafco Worldwide’s ten largest customers, six of which are manufacturers of tobacco products, accounted for approximately 63% of its net revenues or 4% of the Company’s consolidated net revenues. If any of Mafco Worldwide’s significant customers were to stop purchasing licorice products from Mafco Worldwide, it would have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of Mafco Worldwide’s employees belong to labor unions, and strikes, work stoppages and other labor disturbances could adversely affect Mafco Worldwide’s operations and could cause its costs to increase. Mafco Worldwide is a party to a collective bargaining agreement with respect to its employees at the Camden, New Jersey facility. This agreement expires in May 2011. Disputes with regard to the terms of this agreement or Mafco Worldwide’s potential inability to negotiate an acceptable contract upon expiration of the existing contract could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, Mafco Worldwide could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, Mafco Worldwide’s collective bargaining agreements and labor laws may impair its ability to reduce labor costs by streamlining existing manufacturing facilities and in restructuring its business because of limitations on personnel and salary changes and similar restrictions. Changes in Mafco Worldwide’s relationships with its suppliers could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Mafco Worldwide is dependent on its relationships with suppliers of licorice root. Licorice is derived from the roots of the licorice plant, a shrub-like leguminous plant that is indigenous to the Middle East and Central Asia. Most of the licorice root Mafco Worldwide purchases originates in Afghanistan, the Peoples’ Republic of China, Pakistan, Iraq, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Turkey. During 2010, one of Mafco Worldwide’s suppliers of licorice root supplied approximately 42% of its total root purchases. Mafco Worldwide also purchases licorice extracts and licorice derivatives. If any material licorice root supplier or any other material supplier modifies its relationship with Mafco Worldwide, such a loss, reduction or modification could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in costs of licorice root and intermediary licorice extract could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The price of licorice root and intermediary licorice extracts increased significantly during 2010 and 2009. Prior to this, the price of licorice root and intermediary licorice extract had been relatively stable for several years. The price of licorice root and intermediary licorice extract are affected by many factors, including monetary fluctuations and economic, political and weather conditions in countries where Mafco Worldwide’s suppliers are located. Although Mafco Worldwide often enters into purchase contracts for these products, 33 Table of Contents significant or prolonged increases in the prices of licorice root and intermediary licorice extract could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Mafco Worldwide is subject to risks associated with economic, climatic or political instability in countries in which Mafco Worldwide sources licorice root and intermediary licorice extract. Most of the licorice root Mafco Worldwide processes originates in Afghanistan, the People’s Republic of China, Pakistan, Iraq, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Turkey. Producers of intermediary licorice extract are located primarily in the People’s Republic of China, Iraq and Central Asia. Mafco Worldwide’s wholly owned derivative manufacturing facility, the primary source of Mafco Worldwide’s licorice derivatives, is located in the People’s Republic of China. These countries and regions have, from time to time, been subject to political instability, corruption and violence. Economic, climatic or political instability in these countries and regions could result in reduced supply, material shipping delays, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, customs duties, tariffs and import or export quotas, embargos, sanctions, significant raw material price increases or exposure to liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, military action in Iraq and Afghanistan, increasing military tension involving Pakistan, as well as continuing threats of terrorist attacks and unrest, have caused instability in the world’s financial and commercial markets and have significantly increased political and economic instability in some of the countries and regions from which Mafco Worldwide’s raw materials originate. Acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around these countries and regions could adversely affect Mafco Worldwide’s business, results of operations and financial condition in ways the Company cannot predict at this time. Mafco Worldwide’s business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations and changes in interest rates. Mafco Worldwide’s international sales are denominated in foreign currencies, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Approximately 27% of Mafco Worldwide’s sales were from international operations in 2010. Mafco Worldwide’s primary exposures are to fluctuations in exchange rates for the United States dollar versus the Euro and the United States dollar versus the Chinese Yuan. Changes in currency exchange rates could also affect the relative prices at which Mafco Worldwide and its foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Adverse foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Mafco Worldwide is also exposed to changes in interest rates on its variable rate debt. A hypothetical increase of 1 percentage point in the variable component of interest rates applicable to floating rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2010 would have resulted in an increase in its annual interest expense of approximately $0.3 million. Adverse interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on Mafco Worldwide’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure to maintain the quality of Mafco Worldwide’s manufacturing processes or raw materials could harm its operating results. The manufacture of Mafco Worldwide’s products is a multi-stage process that requires the use of high-quality materials and manufacturing technologies. In spite of stringent quality controls, weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of a product in a lot to be defective. If Mafco Worldwide were not able to maintain its manufacturing processes or to maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, Mafco Worldwide’s operating results would be harmed. Mafco Worldwide’s business is subject to risks related to weather, disease and pests that could adversely affect its business. Licorice production is subject to a variety of agricultural risks. Extreme weather conditions, disease and pests can materially and adversely affect the quality and quantity of licorice produced. 34 Table of Contents Mafco Worldwide generally maintains a substantial inventory of licorice root to mitigate against the risks of any temporary supply interruption, including an interruption due to agricultural factors, but a sustained interruption could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Mafco Worldwide is subject to transportation risks. An extended interruption in Mafco Worldwide’s ability to ship or distribute products could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company believes Mafco Worldwide is adequately insured, the Company cannot be sure that Mafco Worldwide would be able to transport its products by alternative means if it were to experience an interruption due to strike, natural disasters or otherwise, in a timely and cost-effective manner. Mafco Worldwide’s failure to accurately forecast and manage inventory could result in an unexpected shortfall of its products which could harm its business. Mafco Worldwide monitors its inventory levels based on its own projections of future demand. Because of the length of time necessary to harvest licorice root and produce licorice products, Mafco Worldwide must make production decisions well in advance of sales. An inaccurate forecast of demand can result in the unavailability of licorice products in high demand. This unavailability may depress sales volumes and adversely affect customer relationships. Risks Relating to the Company’s Contingent Claims The failure of Pneumo Abex’s claims managers, guarantor, indemnitors and insurers to pay their obligations timely and substantially in full could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Pneumo Abex has no operating business or regular source of revenue and is therefore dependent on its claims managers, guarantor, indemnitors and insurers for payment of obligations arising out of the defense and resolution of third-party claims asserted against it. Based upon these third parties’ active management of indemnifiable matters, discharging of the related liabilities when required, and financial positions based upon publicly filed financial statements, as well as the history of insurance recovery, the Company believes that the likelihood of the covering parties failing to satisfy the obligations associated with these matters is remote, although there can be no assurance. Pneumo Abex commenced the Transfer Lawsuit against the Friction Guarantor and certain of its affiliates alleging that certain transfers by the Friction Guarantor have diminished the assets available to it to perform under the Mutual Guaranty. That claim, and any issue arising from any future failure involving Pneumo Abex, will be resolved if and when there is a closing of the transactions contemplated by the Settlement Agreement because the Company will no longer have an ownership interest in Pneumo Abex and will be indemnified by the Settlement Trust. Even if there should be a material failure to satisfy obligations to Pneumo Abex, there should be no material effect on the Company as a whole because Pneumo Abex is an immaterial part of the overall Company. In that circumstance, however, third-party claimants may attempt to seek redress from the other units of the Company. While such attempts should fail, the Company can give no assurance in that regard. 35 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 