Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business The operating performance of our properties has not fully recovered from the recession, which has adversely impacted our managers and tenants and may jeopardize their abilities to pay our rents and returns. Our properties are operated in two segments of the economy which were severely impacted by the recent economic recession. While the economy continued to grow modestly in 2013, we do not know if or when the economy will fully return to pre-recession levels. Most hotels rent rooms on a daily basis and hotels are among the first businesses to be impacted by general economic weakness. Although the U.S. hotel industry has experienced annual gains in occupancy, revenues and profitability when compared to the preceding year since 2011, revenues and profitability at our hotels have not fully recovered to their pre-recession levels. Our travel centers primarily provide goods and services to the trucking industry. The slowdown in the construction industry and reduced consumer spending resulting from the recent recession continue to adversely impact the trucking industry which provides customers to our travel centers. Increases in global trade have historically mitigated the adverse impact of economic slowdowns upon the travel center business, but world trade was seriously and negatively impacted during the recent recession and this slowing continues to adversely affect business at our travel centers. Although the level of trucking activity and business activity at our travel centers improved since the recession, they are still below their pre-recession levels. Further, recent improvements in U.S. export activity have been driven in large part by increased sales of natural resources, such as oil and gas, and by other products that typically are not transported by trucks; and, accordingly, such increased export activity has not resulted in proportional increases in trucking activity within the U.S. If the present general economic conditions continue for an extended time or if the present conditions worsen, our managers and tenants may be unable to meet their financial obligations to us. If we do not receive our rents and returns from our managers and tenants, our income and cash flows will decline, we may be unable to pay distributions to shareholders and the market value of our shares will likely decline. Certain of our rents and returns are guaranteed by the parent companies of our managers and tenants, but these guarantees may not ensure that payments due to us will be made. Certain of our rents and returns are guaranteed by the parent companies of our managers and tenants. However, several of these guarantees are limited by dollar amounts and in duration; for example, our guaranty from Marriott for 68 hotels is limited to $40.0 million (of which $30.7 million remained available at December 31, 2013) and expires on December 31, 2019, our guaranty from Wyndham is limited to $35.7 million (of which $14.2 million remained available at December 31, 2013) and expires on July 28, 2020, our guaranty from Hyatt is limited to $50.0 million (of which $14.0 million remained available at December 31, 2013) and our guaranty from Carlson is limited to $40.0 million (of which $20.4 million remained available at December 31, 2013). If our Marriott, 40 Table of Contents Wyndham, Hyatt and Carlson properties continue to produce less operating income than the guaranteed amounts of our minimum rents or returns for extended periods, these guarantees may be exhausted. Also, because the large majority of TA's business consists of operating properties leased from us, in the event TA does not earn sufficient income from our travel centers it may not have sufficient resources independent of these leaseholds to pay its guaranty obligations to us. Despite the existence of parent companies' guarantees of our tenants' and managers' obligations to us, we cannot assure that these obligations will be paid. Certain of our rents and returns are guaranteed with security deposits that if used to cover shortfalls in our minimum rents and returns will not provide cash flow to us. We originally held a $64.7 million deposit from Marriott under our Marriott No. 234 agreement, which requires annual minimum returns to us of $105.8 million. The security deposit from Marriott has been exhausted and the Marriott guaranty is limited to 90% of minimum returns due to us. As noted above, the balance of this guaranty was $30.7 million as of December 31, 2013. We originally held a $73.9 million deposit under our InterContinental agreement, which requires annual minimum returns to us of $139.5 million. As of December 31, 2013, we have applied $46.1 million of this deposit and the remaining balance to cover future shortfalls is $27.8 million. When and if the InterContinental security deposit and Marriott guaranty are exhausted, we may not receive the amounts contractually set as guaranteed amounts or minimum returns due to us from InterContinental and Marriott, respectively. We have no guarantee or security deposit under our Marriott No. 1, Sonesta or Morgans agreements. Accordingly, the returns we receive from hotels managed by Marriott under our Marriott No. 1 agreement or managed by Sonesta and our lease with Morgans are fully dependent upon the financial results of those hotel operations. We had $46.3 million of shortfalls not funded by managers for 2013, which represents the unguaranteed portions of our minimum returns under our Marriott No. 234 agreement and from Sonesta. When we reduce the amounts of the security deposits we hold for these agreements or any other operating agreements for future payment deficiencies, we record income equal to the amounts so applied, but it will not result in additional cash flow to us of these amounts. Financial and competitive challenges at TA could continue or worsen, and TA may be unable to pay rent due to us. We lease all of our travel center properties, which constitute approximately 36% of our historical investments, to TA. TA has accumulated large losses since it became a separate public company in 2007. TA generates a significant amount of its revenues from fuel sales, but generates low margins on these sales. TA's revenues depend largely on the retail sale of refined petroleum products to drivers who patronize TA's highway travel center facilities. The petroleum products pricing has been, and continues to be, volatile and highly competitive. During the past few years, fuel prices have increased from their recession levels and have continued to be volatile, and fuel supplies have been occasionally disrupted and made more expensive by natural disasters, wars and acts of terrorism and instability in the United States and world economy in general. We cannot accurately predict how these factors may affect petroleum product prices or supplies in the future, or how, in particular, they may affect TA. A large, rapid increase in wholesale petroleum prices could adversely affect TA's profitability and cash flow if TA were unable to pass along price increases to its customers. Fuel price increases and price and supply volatility have also increased TA's working capital requirements. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, TA generally maintains limited fuel inventories. Accordingly, an interruption in TA's fuel supplies would materially and adversely affect its business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, by 41 Table of Contents weather related events, such as hurricanes in the areas where petroleum is extracted or refined, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, war and the like. Further, increases in fuel prices may place TA in a cost disadvantage to those competitors that may have larger and longer maintained fuel inventory that may have been purchased during periods of lower fuel prices. Additionally, increased fuel costs have caused TA's customers to conserve fuel, resulting in less demand for products sold by TA. The recent recession has had an adverse impact upon the U.S. trucking industry from which TA draws customers because fewer goods tend to be shipped during slower economic periods. Price increases and volatility in fuel prices and continued weakness in the U.S. trucking industry may result in future losses at TA, including losses in excess of those previously experienced. TA operates in a highly competitive business, concentrated by a few large participants, including TA's largest competitor, Pilot Flying J Inc. Competitive pressure could negatively impact TA's sales volumes and profitability and could increase its level of selling, general and administrative expense, which could adversely impact TA's ability to pay rent to us. For these and other reasons, TA may be unable to pay rent, including the $150.0 million of deferred rent due in part in 2022 and in part in 2024, to us. Increasing truck fuel efficiency may adversely impact TA's ability to pay our rents and the value of the travel centers we own. Government regulations and the high cost of motor fuels are causing truck manufacturers and truckers to focus on fuel efficiency. The largest part of TA's business consists of selling motor fuel from travel centers leased from us. If truckers purchase less motor fuel because their trucks are operated more efficiently, TA's financial results will decline unless TA is able to sell substitute products, gain market share or increase its gross margins on lower volumes of fuel sales. It is unclear if TA will be able to operate our travel centers profitably if the amount of motor fuels used by the U.S. trucking industry declines because of fuel use efficiencies. If and as truck fuel use efficiency continues to increase and if TA is unable to increase its sales of other products and services, to gain market share or to increase its profit margins on lower fuel volumes, TA may become unable to pay our rents. Also, if our travel centers are not operated profitably their value may decline. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we generally will not be able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund acquisitions. Because of the volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis and the increased volatility in most debt and equity markets generally, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail and we may be unable to remain a REIT. We have large amounts of debts which will need to be refinanced within the next three years; for example, $280.0 million of our senior notes mature in 2015 and $275.0 million of our senior notes mature in 2016. At this time, it is uncertain whether we will be able to refinance these debt maturities or what the cost and other terms may be to accomplish such refinancings. The availability and cost of credit continues to be volatile. Nonpayment at maturity or other defaults on our revolving credit facility 42 Table of Contents or term loan, or any of our other debt, will likely cause a cross default of all our outstanding debt. If we are unable to access capital to refinance our debt maturities, we may be unable to make distributions to our shareholders and the market value of our shares will likely decline. Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement would adversely affect our business and may prevent us from making distributions to our shareholders. Our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement includes various conditions to our borrowing and our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement includes various financial and other covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement at a time when borrowed amounts are outstanding under this instrument, our lenders may demand immediate payment, and if we default, our lenders may elect to not make further borrowings available to us. Any default under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our shares to materially decline and may prevent our making distributions to our shareholders. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional indebtedness may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. At December 31, 2013, we had $2.7 billion in debt outstanding, which was 46.7% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving credit facility and term loan agreement permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. We may be unable to provide the funding required for the rebranding and refurbishment of our properties and our refurbishment projects may be disruptive to our operations and result in reduced revenues at the affected properties. Some of our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to invest money for refurbishments and capital improvements to our properties; for example, we expect to fund an aggregate of approximately $196.6 million under our agreements with Marriott, InterContinental, Sonesta and Wyndham for refurbishment and rebranding costs over the next two years. We may not have the necessary funds to invest, and such expenditures, if made, may not be sufficient to maintain or improve the successful financial performance of our properties. Our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to maintain the properties in a certain required condition. If we fail to maintain the properties in the required condition, then the affected manager or tenant may terminate its management or lease agreement and hold us liable for damages. In addition, renovation projects to our properties may require taking rooms out of service or closing down properties during renovations which could reduce revenues at the affected properties. During 2013, we had 67 hotels under renovation for all or part of the year. These hotels experienced only a 0.1% increase in revenue per available room, or RevPAR, compared to the prior year. 43 Table of Contents Inherent risks in the hotel industry could affect our business. Approximately 64% of our investments are in hotel properties. A number of factors affect the hotel industry generally and therefore impact our operating results, such as: •increased competition from new supply or existing hotel properties in markets where our hotels are located, which may adversely affect our occupancy rates and revenues; •the relative attractiveness of our hotel properties and the level of services provided to guests, which may require us to invest in our hotels; •dependence on business and leisure travel and tourism, which generally causes hotel revenues to reflect general economic conditions; •the appeal to travelers of the local markets in which our hotels are located; •inflation, increased interest rates and borrowing expenses, higher energy costs, salaries and union labor costs, legal expenses, real estate taxes and other operating expenses at our hotel properties, which may reduce our margins, profits or cash flow; •government policies impacting the level of travel by government employees, including for meetings, and the ease of entry into the U.S. of visitors from other countries; and •changing travel patterns in the United States, for example as a reaction to higher airfares and ground travel costs arising from higher fuel prices or taxes or from shifting consumer preferences for travel destinations, which could affect the number of visitors seeking lodging at our hotel properties. These and other factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Events beyond our control, including wars, terrorism, natural disasters or pandemics could significantly reduce the financial results experienced in the hotel industry generally and the financial performance of our hotel properties. If these or similar problems occur, persist or recur, our operating results and financial condition may be harmed by declines in average daily room rates and/or occupancy. The threat of terrorism has a negative impact on the hotel industry due to concerns about travel safety, which may result in the reduction of both business and leisure travel. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had a dramatic adverse effect on business and leisure travel and on our hotels' occupancy. Future acts of terrorism in the United States may adversely impact business and leisure travel activities and, accordingly, our business. Moreover, hotels have themselves been the target of terrorist attacks, and if any of our properties were to be attacked, we could incur significant damages and liabilities, some of which may be beyond the extent of our insurance coverage and contractual protections. Outbreaks of contagious diseases could cause travel to decline and have an adverse effect on the hotel industry in general. We cannot predict the extent to which additional terrorist attacks, acts of war, natural disasters, pandemics or similar events may occur in the future or the impact that such events would have on the hotel industry or on our hotel properties in particular, or their impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We are not permitted to operate our properties and we are dependent on the managers and tenants of our properties. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating hotels or travel centers, we do not manage our hotels or our travel centers. Instead, we or our subsidiaries that qualify as TRSs under applicable REIT laws either retain third party managers to manage our 44 Table of Contents properties pursuant to management agreements or lease our properties to operating companies. Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if our managers or tenants fail to provide quality services and amenities to customers or if they fail to maintain a quality brand. While we monitor our managers' and tenants' performances and apply asset management strategies and discipline, we have limited recourse under our management agreements and leases if we believe that the managers or tenants are not performing adequately. Failure by our managers or tenants to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements and leases could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our managers and tenants operate, and in some cases own or have invested in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest. Also, fees paid to our hotel managers are often set as a percentage of gross revenues rather than profits. As a result, our managers and tenants have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing properties or our hotels' operations that are not or would not be in our best interests. We have a high concentration of properties with a limited number of operators. TA leases all of our travel center properties, which constitute approximately 36% of our total historical investments. Two of our hotel managers, Marriott and InterContinental, operate approximately 23% and 18%, respectively, of our total historical investments. If any of these operators were to fail to provide quality services and amenities or to maintain quality brands, our income from these properties may be adversely affected. Further, if we were required to replace any of our operators, this could result in significant disruptions at the affected properties and declines in our income and cash flows. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares. Interest rates have recently risen from their historical lows but remain below historical long term averages. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares, including in the following ways: •Amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and term loan bear interest at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot assure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us. •An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. Further, increased interest rates may effectively increase the cost of properties we acquire to the extent we utilize leverage for those acquisitions and may result in a reduction in our acquisitions to the extent we reduce the amount we offer to pay for properties, due to the effect of increased interest rates, to a price that sellers may not accept. •We expect to make regular distributions to our shareholders. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of our shares may decline. Some of our management agreements and leases limit our ability to sell or finance some of our properties. Under the terms of some of our hotel management agreements and leases, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer the properties unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets other specified conditions. 45 Table of Contents Our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager's consent or the tenant's consent under our management agreements and leases. If, in these circumstances, the manager or the tenant does not consent, we may be prevented from taking actions which might be beneficial to our shareholders. Our acquisitions and investments may not be successful. An element of our business plan involves the acquisition of additional properties and making real estate investments. We cannot assure that we will be able to locate or consummate attractive acquisition or investment opportunities or that acquisitions or investments we make will be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time. For example, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. Also, our property operating costs for our acquired properties may be higher than we anticipate and our acquired properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us losses. Similar risks may apply to any investment we may make in real estate mortgages. Moreover, if we were to become a mortgagee of real estate, we may face the risk that our borrower may default its obligations and we may be unable to obtain control of the properties which receive our investments to ensure they are properly maintained and operated. We face significant competition. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, operating companies in the hospitality industry, individuals and other public and private companies. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and management resources than we have and may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage, including risks with respect to the creditworthiness of property operators and the extent of leverage used in their capital structure. Such competition may reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities available to us, and we may be unable to, or may pay a significantly increased purchase price to, acquire a desired property. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental costs arising at, or migrating from, properties they own, and we cannot assure that we will not be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties, including at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial. Our hotel properties may be subject to environmental laws for certain hazardous substances used to maintain these properties, such as chemicals used to clean swimming pools, pesticides and lawn maintenance materials, and for other conditions, such as the presence of harmful mold. 46 Table of Contents The travel centers we own and that TA leases from us include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damages. As a result, TA regularly incurs environmental cleanup costs. In the leases that we entered with TA, TA agreed to indemnify us from all environmental liabilities arising at any travel center property during the term of the leases. Despite this indemnity, various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, properties they own and we cannot assure that we will not be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties, including at sites we own and lease to TA. Moreover, TA may not have sufficient resources to pay its environmental liabilities and environmental indemnity to us. The negative impact on TA of the recent economic downturn and volatility in the petroleum markets and other factors may make it more likely that TA will be unable to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us in the event that environmental claims arise at our travel center properties. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our hotel and travel center properties to increase. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or the financial condition and results of operations of our managers or tenants and their ability to pay rent or returns to us. For more information regarding climate change matters and their possible adverse impact on us, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Impact of Climate Change." Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. In addition to the risks related to environmental hazards and climate change, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time; •property and casualty losses; •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; •legislative and regulatory developments that may occur at the federal, state and local levels that have direct or indirect impact on the ownership, leasing and operation of our properties; and •litigation incidental to our business. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of tenants and managers and operating data. Several of these systems are owned by our tenants and managers. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We and RMR rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing confidential tenant, manager and customer 47 Table of Contents information, such as individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect us. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, has proposed accounting rules that would require companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. If such a proposal is adopted, many companies that account for certain leases on an "off balance sheet" basis would be required to account for such leases "on balance sheet." This change would remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property, and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including their credit quality and the factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. If the proposal is adopted, it could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms, in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets. The proposal could also make lease renewal options less attractive, as, under certain circumstances, the rule would require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term. We currently own some properties located outside the United States and may consider additional investments outside this country in the future; investments outside of this country create special risks. We currently own two hotels in Canada. If we make other investments in real estate outside the United States, we will face certain special risks arising from those investments, including: •Laws affecting the operations of hotels in foreign countries may require us to assume responsibility for payments due to employees of hotels we own or in which we invest. •Foreign laws affecting real estate may restrict the ability of entities organized or controlled by persons outside those countries, like us, to own or make management decisions affecting the properties in which we invest. •In most foreign countries, we will not have the same or similar tax status as we have in the United States, we will be subject to local taxes, and our net earnings may be less than we would realize by making investments in the United States. •Most of the hotels located in foreign countries in which we invest will conduct business in local currencies rather than in U.S. dollars. We may be able to mitigate some of the risk of changing comparative currency valuations by funding our foreign investments in local currencies; however, it is unlikely we will be able to completely mitigate such foreign currency exchange rate risk. •Some foreign countries do not have judicial dispute resolution processes which are as efficient or honest as the United States judicial system generally. We may mitigate this risk by making the resolution of disputes which may arise from our foreign investments subject to arbitration; however, the enforcement of arbitration awards will remain subject to local judicial processes and there may be no way for us to mitigate the risks of our dealings in a foreign legal system. •Investments by United States entities like us in foreign countries may be particularly subject to terrorism risks as it relates to the ownership of prominently identified properties such as hotels. 48 Table of Contents •The political systems in some foreign countries are less stable than in the United States, and some foreign governments have in the past expropriated properties owned by United States entities like us without paying fair compensation. Although we will attempt to balance the potential rewards of future investments in foreign countries against these and other risks, we may not be successful in doing so and investments we make in real estate located in foreign countries may result in material losses. Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our special tax statuses could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the federal government will not someday eliminate REITs under the IRC. Maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under both our term loan and our revolving credit facility, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our shares likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Similarly, under existing law and through available tax concessions, we have minimized the Canadian and Puerto Rican income taxes that we must pay. We believe that we have operated, and are operating, in compliance with the requirements of these laws and tax concessions. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the local tax authority will agree. If the existing laws or concessions are unavailable to us in the future, then we may be subject to material amounts of income taxes and the value of our shares likely would decline. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced tax rates. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for these reduced rates. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the 49 Table of Contents actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. Even if we qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes. See "Business—Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a REIT." In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, prevent the recognition of certain types of non-cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets and operations through our TRSs or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If arrangements involving our TRSs fail to comply as intended with the REIT qualification and taxation rules, we may fail to qualify as a REIT or be subject to significant penalty taxes. We lease a substantial majority of our hotel properties to our TRSs pursuant to arrangements that, under the IRC, are intended to qualify the rents we receive from our TRSs as income that satisfies the REIT gross income tests. We also intend that our transactions with our TRSs be conducted on arm's length bases so that we and our TRSs will not be subject to penalty taxes under the IRC applicable to mispriced transactions. While relief provisions can sometimes excuse REIT gross income testing failures, in such cases significant penalty taxes can be imposed. For our TRS arrangements to comply as intended with the REIT qualification and taxation rules under the IRC, a number of requirements must be satisfied, including: •our TRSs may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a lodging facility, as defined by the IRC; •the leases to our TRSs must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and not as service contracts, partnerships, joint ventures, financings, or other types of arrangements; •the leased properties must constitute qualified lodging facilities (including customary amenities and facilities) under the IRC; •the leased properties must be managed and operated on behalf of the TRSs by independent contractors who are less than 35% affiliated with us and who are actively engaged (or have affiliates so engaged) in the trade or business of managing and operating qualified lodging facilities for persons unrelated to us; and •the rental and other terms of the leases must be arm's length. 50 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the IRS or a court will agree with our assessment that our TRS arrangements comply as intended with applicable REIT qualification and taxation rules. If arrangements involving our TRSs fail to comply as intended, we may fail to qualify as a REIT or be subject to significant penalty taxes. Risks Related to Our Relationship with RMR, Sonesta and TA. We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contracts with RMR. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions and to execute our financing strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming internally managed or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase. Our management structure and agreements and relationships with RMR and Sonesta may restrict our investment activities and may create conflicts of interest or the perception of such conflicts. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the types of properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry M. Portnoy and Adam D. Portnoy. RMR also acts as the manager for four other NYSE-listed REITs: CWH, which primarily owns office buildings; GOV, which owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants; SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living and medical office buildings; and SIR, that primarily owns net leased, single tenant office and industrial properties and leased lands in Hawaii. RMR also provides services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including Five Star, which operates senior living communities, TA, our largest tenant, and Sonesta, which manages 22 of our hotels. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and to other companies to which it provides management services may create potential conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. Our management agreements with RMR and Sonesta and all other agreements we have entered and may enter with Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy and their affiliates were and will be negotiated between related parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated between unrelated parties. In our management agreements with RMR, we acknowledge that RMR may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to those of ours and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR. 51 Table of Contents Barry Portnoy is Chairman and an employee of RMR, and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of other companies to which RMR provides management services. All of our executive officers are also officers of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies to which RMR provides management services. Such equity ownership and positions by our Trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its related parties. Our management arrangements with RMR may discourage our change of control. A default under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement would occur if RMR ceases to act as our business manager, unless waived by our lenders holding a majority of the aggregate credit exposure under the agreement. RMR is able to terminate its management agreement with us if we experience a change of control. We may be unable to duplicate, without considerable cost increases, the quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR if we become internally managed or if we contract with other parties for management services. For these reasons, our management agreement with RMR may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for your common shares. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with RMR, TA, Sonesta, Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management or other services, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with other related parties of RMR may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention even if the action is unfounded. Our business dealings with TA and Sonesta may create conflicts of interest. TA is our former 100% owned subsidiary and our largest tenant, and we are TA's largest shareholder. TA was created as a separate public company in 2007 as a result of its spin-off from us. One of our Managing Trustees, Barry Portnoy, serves as a managing director of TA. Thomas O'Brien, an officer of RMR and a former officer of ours prior to the TA spin-off, is President and Chief Executive Officer and the other managing director of TA. Arthur Koumantzelis, who was one of our Independent Trustees prior to the TA spin-off, serves as an independent director of TA. RMR provides management services to both us and TA. TA is the lessee of 36% of our real estate properties, at cost, as of December 31, 2013. We recognized rental income of $219.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 under our leases with TA. Sonesta managed 22 of our hotels as of December 31, 2013. Sonesta is owned by our Managing Trustees. Sonesta's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is an officer of RMR and formerly was our director of internal audit, and other officers and employees of Sonesta are former employees of RMR. Pursuant to our management agreements with Sonesta, we incurred management, system and reservation fees payable to Sonesta of $10.9 million and procurement and construction supervision fees of $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. In the future, we expect to do additional business with TA and Sonesta. We believe that our current leases, management agreements and other business dealings with TA and Sonesta were entered 52 Table of Contents on commercially reasonable terms and that our historical, continuing and increasing business dealings with TA and Sonesta have been beneficial to us. Our transactions with TA and Sonesta have been approved by our Independent Trustees; however, because of the historical and continuing relationships which we have with TA and Sonesta, each of our historical, continuing and expanding business dealings may not be on the same or as favorable terms as we might achieve with a third party with whom we do not have such relationships. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in AIC, we have purchased property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR and six other companies to which RMR provides management services each own 12.5% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our declaration of trust or bylaws prohibit any shareholder other than RMR, its affiliates and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees, from owning (directly and by attribution) more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. These provisions are intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise promote our orderly governance. However, these provisions also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control (although our Board of Trustees has determined to recommend that our shareholders approve at our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders an amendment to our declaration of trust to permit the annual election of all Trustees); •shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of Trustees and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Trustees than for actions which are approved by our Trustees; •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees; •the fact that only our Board of Trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; 53 Table of Contents •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other Trustees be "Independent Trustees", as defined in our governing documents; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; •requirements that shareholders comply with regulatory requirements (including Nevada and Louisiana gaming and Indiana insurance licensing requirements) affecting us which could effectively limit share ownership of us, including in some cases, to 5% of our outstanding shares; and •the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control. Certain aspects of our business may prevent shareholders from accumulating large share ownership, from nominating or serving as Trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business. Certain of our properties include gambling operations. Applicable state laws require that any shareholder who owns or controls 5% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to serve as one of our Trustees must be licensed or approved by the state regulators responsible for gambling operations. Similarly, as an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These approval and pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify any present or former Trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our declaration of trust or bylaws or by our Board of Trustees or shareholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses 54 Table of Contents incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with TA, RMR and Sonesta and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with TA, RMR and Sonesta provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against TA, RMR, Sonesta or our Trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changed, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk. Risks Related to Our Securities We cannot assure that we will continue to make distributions to our shareholders, and distributions we may make may include a return of capital. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur; •our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement and our debt indenture and may be subject to restrictions in future debt we may incur; and •any distributions will be made in the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our results of operations, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectations of our future capital requirements and operating performance, including our cash flows and anticipated cash 55 Table of Contents flows, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement and public debt covenants), tax law requirements to maintain our status as a REIT, restrictions under Maryland law and our expected needs and availability of cash to pay our obligations. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. For example, in 2009, due to conditions in the capital markets at that time, we suspended our regular quarterly distribution on our common shares. Although we resumed making regular quarterly distributions in 2010, there can be no assurance we will not suspend or reduce our distributions due to future market conditions or other reasons. Also, our distributions may include a return of capital. Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and our secured debt, if any. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, effectively subordinated to any secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. We cannot assure that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market develops, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the hospitality industry generally. We may not have the cash necessary to pay the principal return or to repurchase debt on specified dates or following certain change in control transactions. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the principal return and any such net cash amount or make the required repurchase of notes, as the case may be, in cash at the applicable time; and, in such circumstances, we may not be able to arrange the necessary financing on favorable terms. In addition, our ability to pay the principal return and any such net cash amount or make the required repurchase, as the case may be, may be limited by law or the terms of other debt agreements or securities. Moreover, our failure to pay the principal return and any such net cash amount or make the required 56 Table of Contents repurchase, as the case may be, would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under other debt agreements or securities, thereby resulting in their acceleration and required prepayment and further restricting our ability to make such payments and repurchases. In certain change of control circumstances, our future noteholders and some of our other lenders may have the right to require us to purchase our notes which they own at their principal amount plus accrued interest and a premium. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Both our senior notes and our preferred shares are rated by two rating agencies. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred shares at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital, including the interest rate and fees payable under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 57 Table of Contents 