Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading “Warning Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Some of our returns and rents are guaranteed by parent entities or affiliates of our tenants or operators, but these guarantees may be limited or the guarantors may be unable to honor their commitments. Other security features in our management agreements and leases may not be sufficient to cover all obligations due to us. Each management agreement or lease that we have entered into includes various terms intended to secure the payments due to us, including some or all of the following: security deposits which we received but do not escrow, subordination of management fees payable to the operator to some or all of our return or rent and full or limited guarantees from the manager’s or tenant’s parent company. However, the effectiveness of these various security features to provide uninterrupted payments to us is not assured, particularly if the profitability of our properties is at a depressed level for an extended period. Also, these security features may not be sufficient to cover all obligations due to us. We may not receive payments under certain of our guarantees because the guaranty amount is exhausted, because the guarantor’s financial condition deteriorates and it is unable to meet its obligations or for some other reason. Under the terms of some of our guarantees, the guarantors may be released if cash flows from the affected properties exceed certain threshold amounts, and such releases would be effective even if cash flows subsequently decline. We are not permitted to operate our properties and we are dependent on the managers and tenants of our properties. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating hotels or travel centers, we do not manage our hotels or our travel centers. Instead, we or our subsidiaries that qualify as “TRSs” under applicable REIT laws, either retain third party managers to manage our properties pursuant to management agreements or lease our properties to operating companies. Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if our managers or tenants fail to provide quality services and amenities to customers or if they fail to maintain a quality brand. While we monitor our managers’ and tenants’ performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements and leases if we believe that the managers or tenants are not performing adequately. Failure by our managers or tenants to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements and leases could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our managers or tenants manage, and in some cases own or have invested in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our managers or tenants have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing properties that are not or would not be in our best interests. In the recent past, events beyond our control, including an economic slowdown, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and on terrorism, harmed the operating performance of the hotel industry generally and the performance of our hotels. If these or similar events occur again or continue for substantial periods, our operating and financial results may be harmed by declines in average daily room rates or occupancy at our hotels. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had a dramatic adverse effect on business and leisure travel and on our hotels’ occupancy and average daily rate, or ADR. Future terrorist activities could have a similarly harmful effect on both the hotel industry and us. As a result of terrorism concerns, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the impact of a recessionary economy, the U.S. hotel industry generally and our hotels specifically experienced significant declines in occupancy, revenues and profitability in 2001, 2002 and 2003. While the performance of our hotels have improved, the uncertainty associated with the continuing war on terrorism and the possibility of future attacks may adversely impact business and leisure travel patterns and, accordingly, our business. 30 We are dependant on a limited number of operators for our properties and we have a high concentration of our properties with a limited number of operators and their brands. TA leases all of our travel center properties, which constitute approximately 30% of our investments. In addition, two of our unaffiliated hotel operators operate approximately 84% of our hotel investment. If we were to have a dispute with TA or either of these two hotel operators, or if any of these operators were to fail to provide quality services and amenities or to maintain quality brands, our income from these properties may be adversely affected. Further if we were required to replace any of our operators, this could result in significant disruptions at the affected properties and declines in our profitability and cash flows. TA’s operating margins will be narrow. TA leases all of our travel center properties, which constitute approximately 30% of our investments. TravelCenters’ total operating revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, were $3.7 billion; and TravelCenters’ cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation) and operating expenses for the same period totaled $3.5 billion. Fuel sales in particular generate low gross margins. TravelCenters’ fuel sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 were $3.0 billion and TravelCenters generated a gross profit on fuel sales of $111 million. A small decline in TA’s future revenues or increase in TA’s future expenses, especially revenues and expenses related to fuel, may have a material adverse effect upon TA’s income or may jeopardize TA’s ability to pay rent to us. The price of fuel can be volatile. TA purchases fuel at rates that fluctuate with market prices and are reset daily. TA resells fuel at rates it establishes daily. In the future, numerous factors beyond TA’s control, including global demand for fuel and other petroleum products, speculative trading, natural disasters, terrorism, wars or political events in oil producing regions of the world may result in periods of rapid fluctuations in its cost of fuel. When TA’s cost to purchase fuel increases rapidly, TA may not be able to increase its fuel sales prices at the same rate as the increase in fuel costs. When the market price of fuel declines rapidly, the value of any inventory may decline, and TA may have to sell its fuel inventory for less than what TA paid for it. Volatility in the fuel market may have a material adverse effect on TA’s income and may jeopardize TA’s ability to pay rent to us. An interruption in TA’s fuel supplies would materially and adversely affect TA’s business. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, TA generally maintains limited inventories of fuel. In the future, an interruption in TA’s fuel supplies would materially and adversely affect its business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, war and the like. Any limitation in available fuel supplies, which causes a decline in truck freight or which limits the fuel TA can offer for sale, may have a material adverse effect on TA’s sales of fuel and non-fuel products and services or may cause TA to experience losses and jeopardize TA’s ability to pay rent to us. If TA loses the ability to pay for fuel after delivery, TA’s working capital requirements may increase. TA’s suppliers historically have agreed to permit TA to pay for fuel after it is delivered. These terms may be changed by TA’s suppliers. If TA’s suppliers require TA to pay for fuel prior to delivery, the working capital required to operate TA’s business will increase. An increase in TA’s working capital requirements may reduce TA’s financial flexibility, increase TA’s expenses and may cause TA to experience losses and jeopardize TA’s ability to pay rent to us. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay debts or grow. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute 90% of our taxable income to shareholders and we generally cannot use income from operations to repay debts or fund our growth. Accordingly, our business and growth strategy depends in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to fund new investments. We believe we will be able to raise additional debt and equity capital at reasonable costs to repay debts and to refinance our debts at or prior to their maturities and to invest at yields that exceed our cost of capital. However, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of 31 reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Our growth strategy is not assured and may fail. Acquisitions that we make may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates additional acquisitions. We cannot assure our investors that we will be able to consummate further acquisitions or that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. Also, acquisitions of properties, including our recent acquisition of TravelCenters, may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using high cost debt or equity, may result in shareholder dilution. We face competition for the acquisition of properties. We compete with pension funds, private equity investors, other REITs, owner operators and other institutions who are engaged in the acquisition of hospitality properties. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and more experienced personnel than we have. These competitors may affect the supply/demand dynamics and, accordingly, increase the price we must pay for properties we seek to acquire. Furthermore, owners of hospitality properties who offer them for sale may find our competitors to be more attractive buyers because they may have greater financial resources, may be willing to pay more, or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. The loss of our tax status as a REIT or tax authority challenges would have significant adverse consequences to us and reduce the market price of our securities. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, our continued qualification as a REIT is dependent upon our compliance with complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, for which only limited judicial or administrative interpretations are available. We believe we have operated, and are operating, as a REIT in compliance with the Internal Revenue Code. However, we cannot assure that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. If we cease to be a REIT, we would violate a covenant in our bank credit facilities, our ability to raise capital could be adversely affected, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our shares would likely decline. There is no assurance that we will make distributions in the future. We intend to continue to pay quarterly distributions to our shareholders consistent with our historical practice. However, our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein occur. Our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and our debt indenture. All our distributions are made at the discretion of our board of trustees and our future distributions will depend upon our earnings, our cash flows, our anticipated cash flows, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT tax status and such other factors as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. We may be unable to provide the funding required for the refurbishment of our properties. Some of our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to invest money for refurbishments and capital improvements to our properties in some circumstances. We may have to invest more than expected in order to achieve and maintain the competitive position and future financial performance of our properties. We may not have the necessary funds to invest, and such expenditures, if made, may not be sufficient to maintain the successful financial performance of our properties. Our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to maintain the properties in a certain required condition. If we fail to maintain these required standards, then the manager or tenant may terminate the management or lease agreement and hold us liable for damages we may have caused. Our business dealings with our managing trustees and affiliated entities may create conflicts of interest. We have no employees. Personnel and other services which we require are provided to us under contract by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our managing trustees, Barry and Adam Portnoy, who are also Chairman and President 32 and Chief Executive Officer of RMR, respectively. In addition, John Murray, our President, Chief Operating Officer and Secretary, Mark Kleifges, our Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, and Ethan Bornstein, our Vice President are executive officers of RMR. We pay RMR a fee based in large part upon the amount of our investments. Our agreement with RMR also provides for payment to RMR of incentive fees under certain circumstances. Any incentive fees are payable through the issuance of restricted common shares by us to RMR. Our fee arrangement with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions and discourage sales by us. RMR also provides services to one of our tenants, TA, under a management and shared services agreement and Barry Portnoy serves as a managing director of TA. This agreement could encourage RMR to advocate we make travel center acquisitions over hotel acquisitions. RMR also acts as the manager for two other publicly owned REITs: HRPT Properties Trust, or HRPT, which primarily owns office buildings; and Senior Housing Properties Trust, or SNH, which owns senior housing properties. We were formerly a 100% owned subsidiary of HRPT. In addition, RMR provides services to Five Star Quality Care, Inc., or Five Star, under a shared services agreement, and RMR has other business interests. Barry and Adam Portnoy also serve as managing trustees of HRPT. Barry Portnoy also serves as a managing trustee of SNH and a managing director of Five Star. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition among these companies for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy. All of the contractual arrangements between us and RMR have been approved by our independent trustees. Each of our trustees other than Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy serve as a trustee or director of one or more other companies with which RMR has contractual arrangements similar to its contracts with us. We believe that the quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR could not be duplicated by our being a self-advised company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties without considerable cost increases. A termination of our contract with RMR is a default under our revolving credit facility unless approved by a majority of our lenders. The fact that we believe that our relationships with RMR and our managing trustees have been beneficial to us in the past does not guarantee that these related person transactions may not be detrimental to us in the future. Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and rights agreement and under Maryland law may prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than HRPT, RMR and their affiliates from owning more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares. This provision of the declaration of trust may help us comply with REIT tax requirements. However, this provision will also inhibit a change of control. Our declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may increase the difficulty of acquiring control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchases, a proxy fight or otherwise, if the acquisition is not approved by our board of trustees. These other anti-takeover provisions include the following: · a staggered board of trustees with three separate classes; · the two-thirds majority shareholder vote required for removal of trustees; · the ability of our board of trustees to increase, without shareholder approval, the amount of shares (including common shares) that we are authorized to issue under our declaration of trust and bylaws, and to issue additional shares on terms that it determines; · advance notice procedures with respect to nominations of trustees and shareholder proposals; and · the fact that only the board of trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting. We maintain a rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires or attempts to acquire 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for shares they own. Some of our management agreements and leases limit our ability to sell or finance some of our properties. Under the terms of some of our management agreements and leases, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer the properties unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related 33 management agreements and meets other specified conditions. Our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager’s consent or the tenant’s consent under our management agreements and leases. If, in these circumstances, the manager or the tenant does not consent, we may be prevented from taking actions which might be beneficial to our shareholders. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate acquisitions and ownership, including: · increased supply of similar properties in our markets; · catastrophic property and casualty losses, such as losses due to wars, terrorist attacks or natural disasters, some of which may be uninsured; · defaults and bankruptcies by our managers or tenants; · the illiquid nature of real estate markets which impairs our ability to purchase or sell our assets rapidly to respond to anging economic conditions; · management agreements or leases which are not renewed at expiration and may be replaced with management agreements with less favorable terms or relet at lower rents; and · costs that may be incurred relating to maintenance and repair, and the need to make capital expenditures to maintain our properties’ values or due to contractual obligations or changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act. Compliance with environmental laws may be costly. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. The travel centers we own and that TA leases from us include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damages. As a result, TA is expected to regularly incur environmental clean up costs. In the lease that we entered with TA, TA agreed to indemnify us from all environmental liabilities arising at any travel center property during the term of the lease. Despite this indemnity, various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising on properties they own or occupy, and we cannot be assured that we will not be held liable for environmental clean up at our properties, or for future environmental damages at sites we own and lease to TA. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at the properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and TA may not have sufficient resources to pay its environmental liabilities. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. At December 31, 2006, we had $1.2 billion in debt outstanding, which was 33% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving credit facility permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, these debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. On January 31, 2007, we used $1.4 billion of short term financing to partially fund the TravelCenters acquisition. As of February 26, 2007 we repaid $552 million of this debt with the net proceeds of common and preferred equity offerings. We currently anticipate repaying the remainder of this debt by the issuance of additional debt or equity securities. We believe we will be able to raise the required capital to permanently finance the TA Transaction, but there can be no assurance that long term financing will be available or, if available, will be on terms favorable to us. Our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is dependent on many factors, including some beyond our control, such as 34 market conditions. If we are unable to access the capital markets or to raise capital at a reasonable cost, the TravelCenters acquisition may not provide any financial benefit to us and may cause us to experience losses. If we issue secured debt or subsidiary debt, such debt will have priority claims on certain of our assets which are senior to our existing debts. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Substantially all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our revolving credit facility; none of our subsidiaries guaranty our outstanding notes. In addition, at December 31, 2006, one of our subsidiaries has $4 million of secured debt. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, also effectively subordinated to our secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. There is no assurance that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market does develop, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the hospitality industries generally. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on variable rate debt and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. Also, interest rate changes often affect the value of dividend paying securities. Our revolving credit facility requires interest at variable rates and matures in October 2010. At December 31, 2006, we had no outstanding balance and $750 million available for drawing under our revolving credit facility. As we use this facility, if market interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures. We may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts with respect to a portion of our variable rate debt. While these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates on us, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Also, increases in interest rates generally reduce the value of dividend paying securities; accordingly, if interest rates rise the market value of our common and preferred shares may decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 Item 