Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. 35 Table of Contents The current recession is adversely impacting our tenants and operators and may jeopardize their abilities to pay our rents and returns. The U.S. economy is currently in a deep and long recession. Economic conditions may get worse before they get better. We do not know when the present economic circumstances may improve. Our properties are operated in two segments of the economy which are being severely impacted by these economic circumstances. Most hotels rent rooms on a daily basis and hotels are among the first businesses to be impacted by general economic weakness. Our travel centers primarily provide goods and services to the trucking industry; the current economic recession, particularly the slowdown in the construction industry and in consumer spending, is materially and adversely impacting the trucking industry which provides customers to our travel centers. The steady increase in global trade has historically mitigated the adverse impact of economic slowdowns upon the travel center business, but world trade is being seriously and negatively impacted during the current recession and its slowing is adversely affecting business at our travel centers. If the present general economic conditions continue for an extended time or if the present conditions worsen, our tenants and operators may be unable to meet their financial obligations to us. If we do not receive our rents and returns from our tenants and operators, our income and cash flows will decline, we may be unable to pay distributions to shareholders and the market value of our shares will likely decline. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay our debts or otherwise conduct business. The worldwide capital markets are currently experiencing severe limitations in the availability of capital. Several banks have failed or required governmental assistance. We have large amounts of debts which will need to be refinanced within the next three years; for example, our $750 million revolving credit facility will expire in 2011 (assuming we are able to exercise our one year extension option when this facility is currently scheduled to expire in 2010) and our $575 million of convertible bonds may be presented to us for redemption in 2012. At this time, it is unclear whether we will be able to refinance these debt maturities or the cost and other terms which we may incur to affect such refinancings. Moreover, if any of the financial institutions which participate in our revolving credit facility fail, we may be unable to find replacement lenders and our access to borrowing under this facility could be reduced. A default on any of our significant credit facilities will likely cause a cross default of all our outstanding debt. If we are unable to access capital to refinance our debt maturities, we may be unable to pay distributions and the market value of our shares will likely decline. A majority of our rents and returns are guaranteed by the parent companies of our tenants and operators, but these guarantees may not ensure that payments due to us will be made. A large majority of our rents and returns are guaranteed by the parent entities of our tenants and operators. However, several of these guarantees are limited by dollar amounts; for example, our guarantee from InterContinental is limited to $125 million (of which $116 million remains available), our guaranty from Hyatt is limited to $50 million (of which $38 million remains available) and our guarantee from Carlson is limited to $40 million (of which all $40 million remains available). If our properties produce less operating income than the guaranteed amounts of our minimum rents or returns for extended periods, these guarantees may be exhausted. Also, because the large majority of TA's business consists of operating properties leased from us, in the event TA does not earn sufficient income from our travel centers it may not have sufficient resources independent of these leaseholds to pay its guarantee obligations to us. The existence of parent companies guarantees for our tenants' and operators' obligations to us does not assure that these obligations will be paid. Our security deposits will not provide cash flow to us. We hold security deposits from certain of our tenants and operators. However, these security deposits are not escrowed and they will not provide us with cash flow to pay distributions or for other 36 Table of Contents purposes. For example: Marriott has notified us that the operating performance of our hotels in the operating agreements we call Marriott nos. 3 and 4 (see page 70 for a summary description of these hotel operating agreements) were projected to not meet our minimum return/rent requirements for the first quarter of 2009. The notices we received with respect to our operating agreement known as Marriott no. 3 were followed by payments to us of amounts which were less than the minimum monthly returns required in this agreement for the first three periods in 2009. In each of the first two instances we sent Marriott a notice that there was deficiency in the minimum monthly payment and, in each case, Marriott paid the deficiency amount within the ten day cure period established in this operating agreement. We sent Marriott a notice regarding the deficiency for the third period payment on March 2, 2009. If Marriott does not pay the third period deficiency we will reduce the amount of the security deposit we hold for the Marriott no. 3 operating agreement by the amount of the deficiency as well as possibly take other action permitted under the operating agreement. With respect to our operating agreement known as Marriott no. 4, we received payment of the full minimum rent required in this agreement for the first two periods in 2009. The payment we received for the third period of 2009 was less than the full minimum rent required under this agreement. On March 2, 2009, we sent Crestline, our tenant under the Marriott no. 4 operating agreement, and Marriott, the manager of the hotels included in the Marriott no. 4 agreement, a notice of default. Pursuant to the terms of the operating agreement, Crestline and/or Marriott has ten days to cure this default. If we do not receive the deficiency amount within the applicable cure period we will reduce the amount of the security deposit we hold for the Marriott no. 4 agreement by the amount of the deficiency and pursue other remedies available to us under the operating agreement, including possible termination of this lease. If we apply security deposits which we hold to satisfy the minimum rents or returns due for our Marriott properties or for any other of our properties, the application of these deposits will be recognized by us as income, but this accounting treatment will not provide us with cash flow to pay distributions or for any other purpose. To maintain our REIT status under the IRC, we are required to pay substantially all of our income as distributions to shareholders; however, our board of trustees historically has considered our cash flows as an important determinant of our distributions. Accordingly, if we use security deposits to satisfy our tenants and operators payment obligations to us we may not have sufficient cash flow to pay distributions or for other purposes. We are currently in negotiations with Marriott concerning its payment of minimum returns to us during the present economic recession, and we do not know if Marriott will pay minimum returns to us which exceed the amount of cash flow from our hotels with respect to the Marriott no. 3 agreement or if Marriott or Crestline will pay the full rent due to us with respect to our Marriott no. 4 agreement. Inherent risks in the hotel industry could affect our business. Approximately 60% of our investments are in hotel properties. A number of factors affect the hotel industry generally and therefore impact our operating results, such as: •increased competition from new supply or existing hotel properties in our markets, which may adversely affect our occupancy rates and revenues; •the attractiveness of our hotel properties and the level of services provided to guests; •dependence on business, commercial and leisure travel and tourism; •dependence on group and meeting/conference business; •inflation, increases interest rates and borrowing expenses, higher energy costs, salaries and union labor costs, legal expenses, real estate taxes and other operating expenses at our hotel properties may reduce our revenues; and •changing travel patterns in the U.S., for instance as a reaction to higher airfares and ground travel costs arising from higher fuel prices or taxes or from shifting consumer preferences for 37 Table of Contents travel destinations, which could affect the number of visitors seeking lodging at our hotel properties. These and other factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Events beyond our control, including wars and terrorism, have reduced the financial results experienced in the hotel industry generally and the financial performance of our hotels. If these or similar problems persist or recur, our operating and financial results may be harmed by declines in average daily room rates and/or occupancy. The threat of terrorism has a negative impact on the hotel industry due to concerns about travel safety, which may result in the reduction of both business and leisure travel. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had a dramatic adverse effect on business and leisure travel and on our hotels' occupancy and average daily rate, or ADR. Future terrorist activities or the U.S. involvement in wars could have a similarly harmful effect on both the hotel industry and us. Future acts of terrorism in the U.S. may adversely impact business and leisure travel patterns and, accordingly, our business. Moreover, hotels have themselves been targets of terrorist attacks, and if any of our properties were to be attacked, we could incur significant damages and liabilities, some of which may be beyond the extent of our insurance coverage and contractual protections. We cannot predict the extent to which additional terrorist attacks, acts of war or similar events may occur in the future or the impact that such events would have on the hotel industry or on our properties in particular, or their impact on our operating results and financial condition. Financial difficulties at TA could continue or worsen. We lease all of our travel center properties, which constitute approximately 40% of our investments, to TA. TA's total revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 were $7.7 billion and its net loss from operations was $40.2 million. TA's fuel sales generate low margins; in the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, TA generated a gross profit from fuel sales of $275 million on sales of $6.5 billion. TA's revenues depend largely on the retail sale of refined petroleum products to drivers who patronize TA's highway travel center facilities. The petroleum marketing industry has been, and continues to be, volatile and highly competitive. During the past few years the price of fuel has materially increased, including the record high diesel prices seen during 2008, fuel prices have become materially more volatile and fuel supplies have been occasionally disrupted and made more expensive by natural disasters, wars and acts of terrorism and instability in the economy in general. We cannot accurately predict how these factors may affect petroleum product prices or supplies in the future, or how, in particular, they may affect TA. A large, rapid increase in wholesale petroleum price could adversely affect TA's profitability and cash flow if TA were unable to pass along price increases to its customers. Fuel price increases and price and supply volatility have also increased TA's working capital requirements. Additionally, increased fuel costs may cause TA's customers to conserve fuel, resulting in less demand for products sold by TA. The current economic recession has had an adverse impact upon the U.S. trucking industry from which TA draws customers because fewer goods tend to be shipped during slower economic periods. In August 2008, we entered into a rent deferral agreement with TA, permitting TA to defer up to $5 million of rent per month beginning July 1, 2008 until December 31, 2010. In 2008, TA deferred $30 million of rent under this agreement. Despite the fact that this is a deferral agreement (and not a rent forgiveness agreement), we have determined that, due to the uncertainties regarding TA's ability to perform its obligations under its leases, generally accepted accounting principles require us to reserve previously accrued straight line and deferred rents until circumstances change or these amounts are collected. Price increases and volatility in fuel prices and continued weakness in the U.S. trucking industry may result in future losses at TA, including losses in excess of those previously experienced, which could 38 Table of Contents jeopardize TA's ability to pay rent, including deferred amounts due to us and to satisfy TA's other obligations to us. We depend on a limited number of operators for our properties and we have a high concentration of our properties with a limited number of operators and their brands. TA leases all of our travel center properties, which constitute approximately 40% of our investments. In addition, two of our hotel operators, InterContinental and Marriott, operate approximately 28% and 24%, respectively, of our total investments. If we were to have a dispute with any of these operators, or if any of these operators were to fail to provide quality services and amenities or to maintain quality brands, our income from these properties may be adversely affected. Further if we were required to replace any of our operators, this could result in significant disruptions at the affected properties and declines in our income and cash flows. We are not permitted to operate our properties and we are dependent on the managers and tenants of our properties. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating hotels or travel centers, we do not manage our hotels or our travel centers. Instead, we or our subsidiaries that qualify as TRSs under applicable REIT laws, either retain third party managers to manage our properties pursuant to management agreements or lease our properties to operating companies. Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if our managers or tenants fail to provide quality services and amenities to customers or if they fail to maintain a quality brand. While we monitor our managers' and tenants' performances, we have limited recourse under our management agreements and leases if we believe that the managers or tenants are not performing adequately. Failure by our managers or tenants to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements and leases could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our managers or tenants manage, and in some cases own or have invested in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our managers or tenants have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing properties that are not or would not be in our best interests. We are subject to risks arising from litigation. From time to time, we are involved in litigation. Litigation can be costly, and the results of litigation are often difficult to predict. We may not have adequate insurance coverage or contractual protection to cover costs and liability in the event we are sued, and to the extent we resort to litigation to enforce our rights, we may incur significant costs and ultimately be unsuccessful or unable to recover amounts we believe are owed to us. We often have no control of the timing of litigation, which presents challenges to our strategic planning. For example, we are aware of a complaint originally filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery on February 1, 2008 which purports to be a derivative action against TA's directors, us and RMR. This complaint appears to allege that our lease of Petro Stopping Centers® branded travel centers to TA is unfair to TA. The plaintiff has conceded that he was unable to effect service of process on us. We have demanded that TA arbitrate the claims pertaining to our lease as our lease provides. Although we do not currently expect this litigation or the arbitration to have a material adverse effect on us, we understand that rulings made in litigation can sometimes produce unexpected results and litigation can be expensive to conduct. Accordingly, we can not predict the final impact of this litigation or arbitration on us at this time. 39 Table of Contents The loss of our tax status as a REIT or tax authority challenges could have significant adverse consequences to us and reduce the market price of our securities. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, our continued qualification as a REIT is dependent upon our compliance with complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, for which only limited judicial or administrative interpretations are available. We believe we have operated, and are operating, as a REIT in compliance with the Internal Revenue Code. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. If we cease to be a REIT, we would violate a covenant in our bank credit facilities, our ability to raise capital could be adversely affected, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our securities would likely decline. There is no assurance that we will make distributions in the future. We intend to continue to pay quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However, our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by the risks described herein, including the current U.S. recession and constraints in the U.S. capital markets and their impact on our business. Our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and our debt indenture. All our distributions are made at the discretion of our board of trustees and the timing and amount of our future distributions will depend upon our earnings, our cash flows, our anticipated cash flows, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT tax status, our ability to access capital and such other factors as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. Recent IRS rulings have expanded the ability of REITs to pay distributions in shares. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions or regarding the form of distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. We may be unable to provide the funding required for the refurbishment of our properties. Some of our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to invest money for refurbishments and capital improvements to our properties. We may have to invest more than expected in order to achieve and maintain the competitive position and future financial performance of our properties. We may not have the necessary funds to invest, and such expenditures, if made, may not be sufficient to maintain the successful financial performance of our properties. Our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to maintain the properties in a certain required condition. If we fail to maintain these required standards, then the manager or tenant may terminate the management or lease agreement and hold us liable for damages. Our business dealings with our managing trustees and related persons may create conflicts of interest. We have no employees. Personnel and services which we require are provided to us under contract by RMR. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has great latitude in determining the types of properties that are proper investments for us, as well as the individual investment decisions. Our board of trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our properties but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our board of trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our managing trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. Our President and Chief Operating Officer, John G. Murray, is an Executive Vice President of RMR, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Mark L. Kleifges, is an Executive Vice President of RMR, and our Senior Vice President, Ethan S. Bornstein, is a Senior Vice President of RMR. All of the members of our board of trustees, including our independent trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of various companies to which RMR provides management services. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with 40 Table of Contents other companies to which RMR provides management services. Such equity ownership and positions by our trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its affiliates. We cannot assure you that the provisions in our declaration of trust or bylaws will adequately address potential conflicts of interest or that such actual or potential conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. We will pay RMR fees based in part upon the historical cost of our investments, the gross rents we collect from tenants and the costs of construction we incur at our properties which are supervised by RMR, plus an incentive fee based upon certain increases in our cash available for distribution per share (as defined in our business management agreement). See "Item 1. Business—Manager." Our fee arrangements with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions of properties and discourage sales of properties by us or to undertake unnecessary construction activities. RMR also acts as the manager for two other publicly traded REITs: HRP, which primarily owns and operates office and industrial buildings and leased industrial land; and SNH, which owns senior living and healthcare properties and medical office buildings. RMR also provides management services to other public and private companies, including: Five Star Quality Care, Inc., or Five Star, which operates senior living communities, including independent living and congregate care communities, assisted living communities, nursing homes and hospitals; and TA, our largest tenant. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition for the time and effort of RMR and Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and TA create actual and potential conflicts of interest, and these conflicts can be especially severe in periods of financial stress such as the present. A termination of our business management agreement with RMR is a default under our revolving credit facility unless approved by a majority of our lenders. The quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR may not be able to be duplicated by our being a self managed company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties, without considerable cost increases. For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for your securities. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident trustee nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with trustees, related persons and entities. Our relationship with RMR, with Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with RMR affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. We depend upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, source and complete new acquisitions for us on favorable terms and to execute our financing strategy on favorable terms. Because we are externally managed, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming a self managed company or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the management fees we pay RMR, and as a result our earnings and cash flows may decline. 41 Table of Contents Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and rights agreement, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may prevent shareholders from implementing beneficial changes or prevent shareholders from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. Our declaration of trust or bylaws prohibit any shareholder, other than RMR and its affiliates, from owning more than 9.8% of any class or series of our outstanding shares. These provisions may assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise promote our orderly governance. However, this provision may also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws and under Maryland law may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be beneficial to shareholders, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change in our control; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a trustee and a requirement that certain of our trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other trustees be "Independent Trustees"; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to propose nominees for election of trustees and propose other business before a meeting of our shareholders; •the two-thirds shareholder vote required for removal of trustees; •the authority of our board of trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; •the fact that only the board of trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; and •the authority of our board of trustees to adopt certain amendments or supplements to our declaration of trust without shareholder approval, including the authority to increase or decrease the number of our shares, to create new classes or series of shares (including a class or series of shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders), to increase or decrease the number of shares of any class, and to classify or reclassify any unissued preferred shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of our preferred shares or any new class of preferred shares created by our board of trustees. We maintain a rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for securities they own. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland 42 Table of Contents law, our trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust requires us to indemnify our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent required or permitted by Maryland law. We have similar obligations under individual indemnification agreements with each of our trustees and executive officers. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our declaration of trust or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Some of our management agreements and leases limit our ability to sell or finance some of our properties. Under the terms of some of our hotel management agreements and leases, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer the properties unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets other specified conditions. Our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager's consent or the tenant's consent under our management agreements and leases. If, in these circumstances, the manager or the tenant does not consent, we may be prevented from taking actions which might be beneficial to our shareholders. Acquisitions that we make may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates additional acquisitions. We cannot assure our investors that we will be able to consummate further acquisitions or that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. Also, acquisitions of properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. We face competition for the acquisition of properties. We compete with pension funds, private equity investors, other REITs, owner operators and other businesses which are engaged in the acquisition of hospitality properties. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and more experienced personnel than we have. These competitors may affect the supply/demand dynamics and, accordingly, increase the price we must pay for properties we seek to acquire. Furthermore, owners of hospitality properties who offer them for sale may find our competitors to be more attractive buyers because they may have greater financial resources, may be willing to pay more, or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, recent constraints in the U.S. capital markets may affect our ability to raise capital for acquisitions. We may change our operational and investment policies without shareholder approval. Our board of trustees determines our operational and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve 43 Table of Contents transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our shares and our ability to make distributions to you. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate acquisitions and ownership, including: •increased supply of similar properties in our markets; •catastrophic property and casualty losses, such as losses due to wars, terrorist attacks or natural disasters, some of which may be uninsured; •defaults and bankruptcies by our managers or tenants; •the illiquid nature of real estate markets which impairs our ability to purchase or sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing economic conditions; •management agreements or leases which are not renewed at expiration and may be replaced with management agreements with less favorable terms or relet at lower rents; and •costs that may be incurred relating to maintenance and repair, and the need to make capital expenditures to maintain our properties' values or due to contractual obligations or changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act. Compliance with environmental laws may be costly. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Our hotel properties may be subject to environmental laws for certain hazardous substances used to maintain these properties, such as chemicals used to clean swimming pools, pesticides and lawn maintenance materials, and for other conditions, such as the presence of harmful mold. In particular, however, the travel centers we own and that TA leases from us include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damages. As a result, TA is expected to regularly incur environmental clean up costs. In the leases that we entered with TA, TA agreed to indemnify us from all environmental liabilities arising at any travel center property during the term of the lease. Despite this indemnity, various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising on properties they own or occupy, and we are not assured that we will not be held liable for environmental clean up at our properties, including environmental damages at sites we own and lease to TA. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at the properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and TA may not have sufficient resources to pay its environmental liabilities and environmental indemnity to us. The negative impact on TA of the recent economic downturn and volatility in the petroleum markets and other factors may make it more likely that TA will be unable to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us in the event that environmental claims arise at our travel center properties. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. At December 31, 2008, we had $2.7 billion in debt outstanding, which was 51% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving credit facility permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt 44 Table of Contents covenants, it may create one or more cross-defaults, these debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. If we issue secured debt or subsidiary debt, such debt will have priority claims on certain of our assets which are senior to our existing debts. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Substantially all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our revolving credit facility; none of our subsidiaries guaranty our outstanding notes. In addition, at December 31, 2008, one of our subsidiaries has $3.6 million of secured debt. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, also effectively subordinated to any secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. There is no assurance that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market does develop, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the hospitality industries generally. We may not have the cash necessary to pay the principal return and any net amount upon the conversion of our convertible notes or to repurchase the convertible notes or other debt on specified dates or following certain change in control transactions. At December 31, 2008, we had $575 million of convertible notes outstanding. Upon a conversion of notes in accordance with their terms, we will be required to pay the principal return of these notes in cash. Furthermore, there may be circumstances that prevent the issuance of our common shares for all or any portion of any net amount deliverable upon the conversion of notes, thereby requiring us to satisfy our net amount obligation in cash. Holders of notes also have the right to require us to repurchase the notes for cash on March 20, 2012, March 15, 2017 and March 15, 2022 or upon the occurrence of certain change in control transactions prior to March 20, 2012. Some of our future debt agreements or securities may contain similar provisions. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the principal return and any such net cash amount or make the required repurchase of notes, as the case may be, in cash at the applicable time; and, in such circumstances, we may not be able to arrange the necessary financing on favorable terms. In addition, our ability to pay the principal return and any such net cash amount or make the required repurchase, as the case may be, may be limited by law or the 45 Table of Contents terms of other debt agreements or securities. Moreover, our failure to pay the principal return and any such net cash amount or make the required repurchase, as the case may be, would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under other debt agreements or securities, thereby resulting in their acceleration and required prepayment and further restricting our ability to make such payments and repurchases. In certain change of control circumstances, our future noteholders and some of our other lenders may have the right to require us to purchase our notes which they own at their principal amount plus accrued interest and a premium. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of your investment in our shares. Our revolving credit facility requires interest at variable rates and matures in October 2010. At December 31, 2008, we had an outstanding balance of $396 million and $354 million available for drawing under our revolving credit facility. If interest rates increase (which is likely, given the unusually low interest rate of 1.03% on our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2008), so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost to refinance existing debt when it becomes due and our ability to pay distributions to you. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby limiting our ability to sell properties to raise capital or realize gains or obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. We pay regular distributions to our common and preferred shareholders; when interest rates available to investors rise, the market prices of dividend paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of your ownership of our shares may decline. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by Moody's Investors' Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. The outlook for our ratings was revised to "negative" by both of these agencies during 2008. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 46 Table of Contents 