Item 1A. Risk Factors There is substantial doubt as to whether we can continue as a going concern. Because we incurred net operating losses of approximately $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 in addition to losses from continuing operations of approximately $13.4 million for the previous two fiscal years we experienced negative cash flows from operations, had significant working capital deficiencies at December 31, 2006, and because we are relying on acceptance of a newly developed and marketed product, there is substantial doubt that we can continue to operate as a going concern. While we have attracted some additional capital to continue to fund operations, there can be no assurance that we can obtain additional financing and if we do obtain financing that it will be on terms that are favorable to us or our stockholders. We have a history of losses and expect that we will continue to experience losses at least through mid 2007. We experienced operating losses and net losses for each of the years from 1998 through 2006. We incurred a net loss of $25.1 million for 1998, $15.5 million for 1999, $28.4 million for 2000, $105.1 million for 2001, $18.2 million for 2002, $10.0 million for 2003, $9.76 million in 2004, $3.68 million in 2005 and $3.0 million in 2006. As of December 31, 2006, we had a working capital deficit of $7.9 million and an accumulated deficit of $234 million. Our ability to generate positive cash flow is dependent upon sustaining certain cost reductions and generating sufficient revenues. Therefore, due to these and other factors, we expect that we will continue to experience net losses through the first quarter of 2007. We have not generated sufficient revenues to pay for all of our operating costs or other expenses and have relied on financing transactions over the last several fiscal years to pay our operating costs and other expenses. We cannot predict with accuracy our future results of operations and believe that any period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that if we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations that we will be able to continue to access the capital markets to fund our operations, or that if we are able to do so that it will be on satisfactory terms. As the number of software products in the industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we believe that software developers and licensors may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We develop new and unproven technology and products. Historically, the Company has been a global provider of software solutions to help companies integrate new and existing applications as well as extend those applications to the Internet. This market segment is commonly known as Enterprise Application Integration or EAI. Historically, EAI solutions work directly at the server or back-office level allowing disparate applications to communicate with each other. Until early 2001, we focused primarily on the development, sale and support of EAI solutions through our Geneva product suite. After extensive strategic consultation with outside advisors and an internal analysis of our products and services, we decided to focus on the growing desktop and business process automation market with our Cicero® product. Our technology and our products are unproven and we have been actively marketing them since 2001. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. Our future success will depend to a substantial degree upon our ability to market and enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing customer requirements and emerging and evolving industry standards. 9 We depend on an unproven strategy for ongoing revenue. The Company’s future revenues are entirely dependent on acceptance of Cicero® which had limited success in commercial markets to date. The Company has experienced negative cash flows from operations for the past three years. At December 31, 2006, the Company had a working capital deficiency of approximately $7,894,000. Accordingly, there is substantial doubt that the Company can continue as a going concern, and the independent auditor’s report accompanying our financial statements raises doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In order to address these issues and to obtain adequate financing for the Company’s operations for the next twelve months, the Company is actively promoting and expanding its product line and continues to negotiate with significant customers who have demonstrated interest in the Cicero® technology. The Company is experiencing difficulty increasing sales revenue largely because of the inimitable nature of the product as well as customer concerns about the Company’s financial viability. Cicero® software is a new “category defining” product in that most EAI projects are performed at the server level and Cicero®’s integration occurs at the desktop level without the need to open and modify the underlying code for those applications being integrated. Many companies are not aware of this new technology or tend to look toward more traditional and accepted approaches. The Company is attempting to solve the former problem by improving the market’s knowledge and understanding of Cicero® through increased marketing and leveraging its limited number of reference accounts while enhancing its list of resellers and system integrators to assist in the sales and marketing process. Additionally, the Company is seeking additional equity capital or other strategic transactions in the near term to provide additional liquidity. Our new strategy is subject to the following specialized risks that may adversely affect our long-term revenue and profitability prospects: · Cicero® was originally developed internally by Merrill Lynch and has no track record of successful sales to organizations within the financial services industry and may not gain market acceptance; · We are approaching a different segment of the financial services industry, the customer contact center, compared to our sales and marketing efforts in the past and there can be no assurance that we can successfully sell and market into this industry; and · We have had very limited success because the financial condition of the Company has caused concern for enterprise customers that would be dependent on Cicero® for their long-term needs. Economic conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause us not to achieve desired revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on the overall demand for desktop integration software and services. Our business depends on overall economic conditions, the economic and business conditions in our target markets and the spending environment for information technology projects, and specifically for desktop integration in those markets. A weakening of the economy in one or more of our geographic regions, unanticipated major events and economic uncertainties may make more challenging the spending environment for our software and services, reduce capital spending on information technology projects by our customers and prospective customers, result in longer sales cycles for our software and services or cause customers or prospective customers to be more cautious in undertaking larger transactions. Those situations may cause a decrease in our revenue. A decrease in demand for our software and services caused, in part, by an actual or anticipated weakening of the economy, may result in a decrease in our revenue rates. The so-called “penny stock rule” could make it cumbersome for brokers and dealers to trade in our common stock, making the market for our common stock less liquid which could cause the price of our stock to decline. The Company was delisted from the NASDAQ SmallCap market effective January 23, 2003. The Company’s common stock presently is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Trading of our common stock on the OTCBB may be subject to certain provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, commonly referred to as the "penny stock" rule. A penny stock is generally defined to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our stock is deemed to be a penny stock, trading in our stock will be subject to additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. These may require a broker-dealer to: · make a special suitability determination for purchasers of our shares; · receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase; and · deliver to a prospective purchaser of our stock, prior to the first transaction, a risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market. 10 Consequently, penny stock rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to trade and/or maintain a market in our common stock. Also, prospective investors may not want to get involved with the additional administrative requirements, which may have a material adverse effect on the trading of our shares. Because we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of individual sales, our quarterly operating results may vary significantly, which could adversely impact our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past, and we expect they will continue to do so in the future. We have derived, and expect to continue to derive in the near term, a significant portion of our revenue from relatively large customer contracts or arrangements. The timing of revenue recognition from those contracts and arrangements has caused and may continue to cause fluctuations in our operating results, particularly on a quarterly basis. Our quarterly revenues and operating results typically depend upon the volume and timing of customer contracts received during a given quarter and the percentage of each contract, which we are able to recognize as revenue during the quarter. Each of these factors is difficult to forecast. As is common in the software industry, the largest portion of software license revenues are typically recognized in the last month of each fiscal quarter and the third and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. We believe these patterns are partly attributable to budgeting and purchasing cycles of our customers and our sales commission policies, which compensate sales personnel for meeting or exceeding periodic quotas. Furthermore, individual Cicero® sales are large and each sale can or will account for a large percentage of our revenue and a single sale may have a significant impact on the results of a quarter. The sales of both our historical products and Cicero® can be classified as generally large in size to a small discrete number of customers. In addition, the substantial commitment of executive time and financial resources that have historically been required in connection with a customer’s decision to purchase Cicero® and our historical products increases the risk of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations. Cicero® sales require a significant commitment of time and financial resources because it is an enterprise product. Typically, the purchase of our products involves a significant technical evaluation by the customer and the delays frequently associated with customers’ internal procedures to approve large capital expenditures and to test, implement and accept new technologies that affect key operations. This evaluation process frequently results in a lengthy sales process of several months. It also subjects the sales cycle for our products to a number of significant risks, including our customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews. The length of our sales cycle may vary substantially from customer to customer. We typically do not have any material backlog of unfilled software orders, and product revenue may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to the completion or commencement of significant assignments, the number of working days in a quarter and the utilization rate of services personnel. As a result of these factors, we believe that a period-to-period comparison of our historical results of operations is not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In particular, our revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal years may not be indicative of the revenues for the first and second quarters. Moreover, if our quarterly results do not meet the expectations of our securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. Loss of key personnel associated with Cicero® development could adversely affect our business. Loss of key executive personnel or the software engineers we have hired with specialized knowledge of the Cicero® technology could have a significant impact on our execution of our new strategy given that they have specialized knowledge developed over a long period of time with respect to the Cicero® technology. Furthermore, because of our restructuring and reduction in the number of employees, we may find it difficult to recruit new employees in the future. Different competitive approaches or internally developed solutions to the same business problem could delay or prevent adoption of Cicero®. Cicero® is designed to address in a novel way the problems that large companies face integrating the functionality of different software applications by integrating these applications at the desktop. To effectively penetrate the market for solutions to this disparate application problem, Cicero® will compete with traditional Enterprise Application Integration, or EAI, solutions that attempt to solve this business problem at the server or back-office level. Server level EAI solutions are currently sold and marketed by companies such as NEON, Mercator, Vitria, and BEA. There can be no assurance that our potential customers will determine that Cicero®’s desktop integration methodology is superior to traditional middleware EAI solutions provided by the competitors described above in addressing this business problem. Moreover, the information systems departments of our target customers, large financial institutions, are large and may elect to attempt to internally develop an internal solution to 11 this business problem rather than to purchase the Cicero® product. Cicero® itself was originally developed internally by Merrill Lynch to solve these integration needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to provide products and services that compare favorably with the products and services of our competitors or the internally developed solutions of our customers. These competitive pressures could delay or prevent adoption of Cicero® or require us to reduce the price of our products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to compete may be subject to factors outside our control. We believe that our ability to compete depends in part on a number of competitive factors outside our control, including the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate senior project managers, the ownership by competitors of software used by potential clients, the development by others of software that is competitive with our products and services, the price at which others offer comparable services and the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to customer needs. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. Our future success will depend to a substantial degree upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing customer requirements and emerging and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new or enhanced products also requires us to manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, as well as ensure that adequate supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop, introduce or manage the transition to new products. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience delays in the introduction of our products, due to factors internal and external to our business. Any future delays in the introduction or shipment of new or enhanced products, the inability of such products to gain market acceptance or problems associated with new product transitions could adversely affect our results of operations, particularly on a quarterly basis. We may face damage to the reputation of our software and a loss of revenue if our software products fail to perform as intended or contain significant defects. Our software products are complex, and significant defects may be found following introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software or in product implementations in varied information technology environments. Internal quality assurance testing and customer testing may reveal product performance issues or desirable feature enhancements that could lead us to reallocate product development resources or postpone the release of new versions of our software. The reallocation of resources or any postponement could cause delays in the development and release of future enhancements to our currently available software, require significant additional professional services work to address operational issues, damage the reputation of our software in the marketplace and result in potential loss of revenue. Although we attempt to resolve all errors that we believe would be considered serious by our partners and customers, our software is not error-free. Undetected errors or performance problems may be discovered in the future, and known errors that we consider minor may be considered serious by our partners and customers. This could result in lost revenue, delays in customer deployment or legal claims and would be detrimental to our reputation. If our software experiences performance problems or ceases to demonstrate technology leadership, we may have to increase our product development costs and divert our product development resources to address the problems. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of proprietary and licensed technology. We originally licensed the Cicero® technology and related patents on a worldwide basis from Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated in August of 2000 under a license agreement containing standard provisions and a two-year exclusivity period. On January 3, 2002, the license agreement was amended to extend our exclusive worldwide marketing, sales and development rights to Cicero® in perpetuity (subject to Merrill Lynch's rights to terminate in the event of bankruptcy or a change in control of the Company) and to grant ownership rights in the Cicero® trademark. Merrill Lynch indemnifies us with regard to the rights granted to us by them. Consideration for the original Cicero® license consisted of 1,000,000 shares of our common stock. In exchange for the amendment, we granted an additional 250,000 shares of common stock to MLBC, Inc., a Merrill Lynch affiliate and entered into a royalty sharing agreement. Under the royalty sharing agreement, we pay a royalty of 3% of the sales price for each 12 sale of Cicero® or related maintenance services. The royalties over the life of the agreement are not payable in excess of $20 million. We have completely re-engineered the Cicero® software to provide increased functionality and much more powerful integration capabilities. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our proprietary and licensed technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law, contractual restrictions and passwords to protect our proprietary technology. However, these measures provide only limited protection, and there is no guarantee that our protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate. Furthermore, the laws of some jurisdictions outside the United States do not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technology; duplicate our products or design around our patents or our other intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect or police the unauthorized use of our products or technology, and litigation may be required in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Additionally, with respect to the Cicero® line of products, there can be no assurance that Merrill Lynch will protect its patents or that we will have the resources to successfully pursue infringers. Any litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights would be expensive and time-consuming, would divert management resources and may not be adequate to protect our business. We do not believe that any of our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. However, companies in the software industry have experienced substantial litigation regarding intellectual property and third parties could assert claims that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our distribution partners and end- users for similar claims made against them. Any claims against us would divert management resources, and could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation, pay damages, develop new intellectual property or acquire licenses to intellectual property that is the subject of the infringement claims. These licenses, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms. As a result, intellectual property claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be adversely impacted if we do not provide professional services to implement our solutions. Customers that license our software typically engage our professional services staff or third-party consultants to assist with product implementation, training and other professional consulting services. We believe that many of our software sales depend, in part, on our ability to provide our customers with these services and to attract and educate third-party consultants to provide similar services. New professional services personnel and service providers require training and education and take time and significant resources to reach full productivity. Competition for qualified personnel and service providers is intense within our industry. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to provide professional services to our customers to effectively implement our solutions of if we are unable to establish and maintain relationships with third-party implementation providers. Because our software could interfere with the operations of customers, we may be subject to potential product liability and warranty claims by these customers. Our software enables customers’ software applications to integrate and is often used for mission critical functions or applications. Errors, defects or other performance problems in our software or failure to provide technical support could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Customers could seek damages for losses from us. In addition, the failure of our software and solutions to perform to customers’ expectations could give rise to warranty claims. The integration of our software with our customer’s applications, increase the risk that a customer may bring a lawsuit us. Even if our software is not at fault, a product liability claim brought against us, even if not successful, could be time consuming and costly to defend and could harm our reputation. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock and it is likely that no dividends will be paid in the future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Provisions of our charter and Bylaws and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits certain persons from engaging in business combinations with the Company, may have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a stockholder may consider to be in the holder’s best interests. These provisions of Delaware law also may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance, without stockholder approval, of preferred stock, with such designations, rights and preferences as the board of directors may determine preferences as from time to time. Such designations, rights and preferences 13 established by the board may adversely affect our stockholders. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used, under certain circumstances, as a means of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock in addition to the currently outstanding preferred stock, we may issue preferred stock in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Issues Not Applicable Item 