Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business The operating performance of our properties has not fully recovered from the recession, which has adversely impacted our tenants and operators and may jeopardize their abilities to pay our rents and returns. Our properties are operated in two segments of the economy which were severely impacted by the recent economic recession. While the economy grew modestly in 2010, we do not know if or when the economy will fully return to pre-recession levels. Most hotels rent rooms on a daily basis and hotels are among the first businesses to be impacted by general economic weakness. In 2008 and 2009, the U.S. hotel industry experienced declines in occupancy, revenues and profitability. These declines reflect reduced business and leisure travel resulting from reduced business and consumer spending during the recession. In 2010, the U.S. hotel industry saw modest gains in occupancy and revenues, but profitability has generally declined or remained flat and all these industry measures are still well below their 2007, pre-recession levels. Our travel centers primarily provide goods and services to the trucking industry; the slowdown in the construction industry and reduced consumer spending is materially and adversely impacting the trucking industry which provides customers to our travel centers. The steady increase in global trade has historically mitigated the adverse impact of economic slowdowns upon the travel center business, but world trade was seriously and negatively impacted during the recent recession and its slowing is adversely affecting business at our travel centers. If the present general economic conditions continue for an extended time or if the present conditions worsen, our tenants and operators may be unable to meet their financial obligations to us. If we do not receive our rents and 37 returns from our tenants and operators, our income and cash flows will decline, we may be unable to pay distributions to shareholders and the market value of our shares will likely decline. A majority of our rents and returns are guaranteed by the parent companies of our tenants and operators, but these guarantees may not ensure that payments due to us will be made. A large majority of our rents and returns are guaranteed by the parent entities of our tenants and operators. However, several of these guarantees are limited by dollar amounts; for example, our guarantee from InterContinental is limited to $125.0 million (of which $6.7 million remained available at December 31, 2010), our guaranty from Hyatt is limited to $50.0 million (of which $25.3 million remained available at December 31, 2010) and our guarantee from Carlson is limited to $40.0 million (of which $30.3 million remained available at December 31, 2010). Our guarantee from InterContinental was exhausted in January 2011, and if our Hyatt and Carlson properties continue to produce less operating income than the guaranteed amounts of our minimum rents or returns for extended periods, these guarantees may also be exhausted. Also, because the large majority of TA's business consists of operating properties leased from us, in the event TA does not earn sufficient income from our travel centers it may not have sufficient resources independent of these leaseholds to pay its guarantee obligations to us. The existence of parent companies guarantees for our tenants' and operators' obligations to us does not assure that these obligations will be paid. Certain managers and tenants have failed to pay the full amounts due to us, and the security deposits applied to cover the shortages will not provide cash flow to us. We hold security deposits from certain of our tenants and operators. These security deposits are not escrowed and they will not provide us with cash flow to pay distributions or for other purposes. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, all payments due to us under our hotel leases and management contracts were paid when due except for certain payments from Marriott and Crestline. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, the payments we received under our management contract with Marriott for 34 hotels that requires minimum annual payments to us of approximately $44.2 million (which we have historically referred to as our Marriott No. 3 contract) and under our lease with Crestline for 19 hotels managed by Marriott that requires minimum annual rent payments to us of approximately $28.5 million (which we have historically referred to as our Marriott No. 4 contract) were $16.9 million and $11.6 million, respectively, less than the minimum amounts contractually required. We applied the available security deposits to cover these deficiencies. Also, during the period between December 31, 2010 and February 21, 2011, we received payments for the Marriott No. 3 and Marriott No. 4 contracts which were less than the contractual minimums required by $3.6 million and $1.8 million, respectively, and we applied the security deposits we hold to cover these amounts. At February 21, 2011, the remaining balances of the security deposits which we hold for the Marriott No. 3 and Marriott No. 4 contracts were $6.5 million and $6.5 million, respectively. At this time, we expect that Marriott will continue to pay us the net cash flows from operations of the hotels included in the defaulted contracts. We currently expect to fully utilize the security deposits we hold from Marriott and Crestline to cover cash shortfalls in payments we expect to receive under these contracts during 2011. We have entered into negotiations with Marriott to modify the agreements covering these hotels and the management agreement covering its 18 Residence Inn hotels (which we have historically referred to as our Marriott No. 2 agreement). Although we intend to pursue these negotiations, there can be no assurance that any agreement will be reached. As of December 31, 2010, the remaining availability under the $125.0 million guarantee securing InterContinental's obligations under its four operating agreements with us had been reduced to $6.7 million. In January 2011, the guarantee became fully exhausted. On February 1, 2011, the 38 payments we received under our four operating agreements with InterContinental, (which require minimum returns/rents of $153.7 million/year), were $8.1 million less than the minimum amounts contractually required. We applied the available security deposit to cover these shortfalls. At February 21, 2011, the remaining balance of the security deposit we hold for these InterContinental agreements was $28.8 million. At this time, we expect that InterContinental will continue to pay us the net cash flows from operations of the hotels included in the defaulted contracts. We currently expect the security deposit we hold from InterContinental may approximate the 2011 shortfall of the payments we expect to receive compared to the contractual minimum payments due to us under these contracts. We have entered into negotiations with InterContinental to modify our four operating agreements covering 131 hotels. During these negotiations, we entered into an agreement with InterContinental on January 25, 2011, providing that the security deposit we hold will secure InterContinental's obligations under all four of our operating agreements with them. Previously, the security deposit secured InterContinental's obligations under three of the agreements. Although we intend to pursue further negotiations with InterContinental, there can be no assurance that any further agreement will be reached. When we reduce the amounts of the security deposits we hold for these agreements or any other operating agreements for future payment deficiencies, we record income equal to the amounts so applied, but it will not result in cash flow to us of these amounts. To maintain our REIT status under the IRC, we are required to pay substantially all of our income as distributions to shareholders; however, our Board of Trustees historically has considered our cash flows as an important determinant of our distributions. Accordingly, if we use security deposits to satisfy our tenants' and operators' payment obligations to us, we may not have sufficient cash flow to pay distributions or for other purposes. TA may be unable to pay the reduced rent and deferred rent amounts due to us. On January 31, 2011, we entered into an amendment agreement with TA which modified the terms of our two leases with TA. Pursuant to the terms of the amendment agreement, the amounts of annual minimum rent due to us under the leases were reduced and the due date for the $150 million of rent TA had deferred under a rent deferral agreement was extended, without interest, to 2022 and 2024. Our entering this agreement does not ensure that TA can afford to pay the reduced and deferred rent amounts due to us and that it will do so in the future. TA has accumulated large losses since it became a separate public company in 2007 and future losses may limit its ability to pay the reduced and deferred rent amounts due to us. Financial difficulties at TA could continue or worsen. We lease all of our travel center properties, which constitute approximately 39% of our historical investments, to TA. TA's total revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 were $6.0 billion and its net loss from operations was $64.5 million. TA's fuel sales generate low margins; in the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, TA generated a gross profit of $259.7 million from fuel sales of $4.8 billion. TA's revenues depend largely on the retail sale of refined petroleum products to drivers who patronize TA's highway travel center facilities. The petroleum products pricing has been, and continues to be, volatile and highly competitive. During the past few years, fuel prices have increased and become materially more volatile, and fuel supplies have been occasionally disrupted and made more expensive by natural disasters, wars and acts of terrorism and instability in the U.S. and world economy in general. We cannot accurately predict how these factors may affect petroleum product prices or supplies in the future, or how, in particular, they may affect TA. A large, rapid increase in wholesale petroleum prices could adversely affect TA's profitability and cash flow if TA were unable to pass along price increases to its customers. Fuel price increases and price and supply volatility have also increased TA's working capital requirements. Additionally, increased fuel costs have 39 caused TA's customers to conserve fuel, resulting in less demand for products sold by TA. The recent recession has had an adverse impact upon the U.S. trucking industry from which TA draws customers because fewer goods tend to be shipped during slower economic periods. Price increases and volatility in fuel prices and continued weakness in the U.S. trucking industry may result in future losses at TA, including losses in excess of those previously experienced, which could jeopardize TA's ability to pay rent, including deferred amounts due to us and to satisfy TA's other obligations to us. On June 30, 2010, two of TA's competitors announced that they completed a merger, effective July 1, 2010. That merger combined the first and second largest competitors in TA's business, based on diesel fuel sales volume. As a result of this combination, TA may see increased competitive pressure that could negatively impact its sales volumes and profitability and could increase its level of selling, general and administrative expense, which could adversely impact TA's ability to pay rent to us. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we generally will not be able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund new acquisitions. We believe we will be able to raise additional debt and equity capital at reasonable costs to refinance our debts at or prior to their maturities, to maintain our properties and to invest at yields that exceed our cost of capital. Our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies will fail. We have large amounts of debts which will need to be refinanced within the next three years; for example, our $750.0 million revolving credit facility will expire in October 2011, $100.9 million of our senior notes mature in 2012 and our $79.1 million of convertible bonds may be presented to us for redemption in March 2012. At this time, it is uncertain whether we will be able to refinance these debt maturities or the cost and other terms which we may incur to accomplish such refinancings. Although recent capital market conditions have improved, the availability and cost of credit continues to be volatile, and credit availability for companies in the hotel and hospitality industry remains limited. Moreover, if we are able to renew our revolving credit facility, one or more financial institutions which now participate may choose not to participate in the renewal, we may be unable to find replacement lenders and our access to borrowing under the renewed facility could be reduced. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to renew our revolving credit facility or that, if renewed, we will be able to maintain its current size, and we expect that, due to increased credit spreads in the current market conditions, the cost of borrowings under a renewed revolving credit facility will be materially higher than under our current revolving credit facility. Nonpayment at maturity or other defaults on our revolving credit facility or any of our other debt will likely cause a cross default of all our outstanding debt. If we are unable to access capital to refinance our debt maturities, we may be unable to pay distributions and the market value of our shares will likely decline. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. At December 31, 2010, we had $2.1 billion in debt outstanding, which was 41% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving credit facility permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt 40 covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. Inherent risks in the hotel industry could affect our business. Approximately 61% of our investments are in hotel properties. A number of factors affect the hotel industry generally and therefore impact our operating results, such as: •increased competition from new supply or existing hotel properties in our markets where our hotels are located, which may adversely affect our occupancy rates and revenues; •the relative attractiveness of our hotel properties and the level of services provided to guests which may require us to invest in our hotels; •dependence on business, commercial and leisure travel and tourism which generally causes hotel revenues to reflect general economic conditions; •inflation, increased interest rates and borrowing expenses, higher energy costs, salaries and union labor costs, legal expenses, real estate taxes and other operating expenses at our hotel properties may reduce our margins or profits or our cash flow; and •changing travel patterns in the U.S., for instance as a reaction to higher airfares and ground travel costs arising from higher fuel prices or taxes or from shifting consumer preferences for travel destinations, which could affect the number of visitors seeking lodging at our hotel properties. These and other factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Events beyond our control, including wars, terrorism, natural disasters or pandemics could significantly reduce the financial results experienced in the hotel industry generally and the financial performance of our hotels. If these or similar problems occur, persist or recur, our operating and financial results may be harmed by declines in average daily room rates and/or occupancy. The threat of terrorism has a negative impact on the hotel industry due to concerns about travel safety, which may result in the reduction of both business and leisure travel. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had a dramatic adverse effect on business and leisure travel and on our hotels' occupancy and average daily rate, or ADR. Future acts of terrorism in the U.S. may adversely impact business and leisure travel activities and, accordingly, our business. Moreover, hotels have themselves been targets of terrorist attacks, and if any of our properties were to be attacked, we could incur significant damages and liabilities, some of which may be beyond the extent of our insurance coverage and contractual protections. Outbreaks of contagious diseases could cause travel to decline and have an adverse effect on the hotel industry in general. We cannot predict the extent to which additional terrorist attacks, acts of war, pandemics or similar events may occur in the future or the impact that such events would have on the hotel industry or on our hotel properties in particular, or their impact on our operating results and financial condition. We are not permitted to operate our properties and we are dependent on the managers and tenants of our properties. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating hotels or travel centers, we do not manage our hotels or our travel centers. Instead, we or our subsidiaries that qualify as TRSs under applicable REIT laws either retain third party managers to manage our properties pursuant to management agreements or lease our properties to operating companies. Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if our managers or tenants fail to provide quality 41 services and amenities to customers or if they fail to maintain a quality brand. While we monitor our managers' and tenants' performances, we have limited recourse under our management agreements and leases if we believe that the managers or tenants are not performing adequately. Failure by our managers or tenants to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements and leases could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our managers or tenants manage, and in some cases own or have invested in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our managers or tenants have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing properties that are not or would not be in our best interests. We depend on a limited number of operators for our properties and we have a high concentration of our properties with a limited number of operators and their brands. TA leases all of our travel center properties, which constitute approximately 39% of our historical investments. In addition, two of our hotel operators, InterContinental and Marriott, operate approximately 27% and 26%, respectively, of our total investments. If any of these operators were to fail to provide quality services and amenities or to maintain quality brands, our income from these properties may be adversely affected. Further if we were required to replace any of our operators, this could result in significant disruptions at the affected properties and declines in our income and cash flows. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of your investment in our shares. There are three principal ways that increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares: •Funds borrowed under our revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2010, we had $144.0 million outstanding and $606.0 million available for drawing under our revolving credit facility. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs on any borrowings we may have outstanding, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost to refinance existing debt when it becomes due, including our revolving credit facility which expires in October 2011, and our ability to pay distributions. •An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. •We expect to pay regular distributions on our shares. When interest rates on investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of our shares may decline. We are subject to risks arising from litigation. From time to time, we are involved in litigation. Litigation can be costly, and the results of litigation are often difficult to predict. We may not have adequate insurance coverage or contractual protection to cover costs and liability in the event we are sued, and to the extent we resort to litigation to enforce our rights, we may incur significant costs and ultimately be unsuccessful or unable to recover amounts we believe are owed to us. We may be unable to provide the funding required for the refurbishment of our properties. Some of our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to invest money for refurbishments and capital improvements to our properties. We may have to invest more than expected in order to achieve and maintain the competitive position and future financial performance of our 42 properties. We may not have the necessary funds to invest, and such expenditures, if made, may not be sufficient to maintain the successful financial performance of our properties. Our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to maintain the properties in a certain required condition. If we fail to maintain these required standards, then the affected manager or tenant may terminate its management or lease agreement and hold us liable for damages. Some of our management agreements and leases limit our ability to sell or finance some of our properties. Under the terms of some of our hotel management agreements and leases, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer the properties unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets other specified conditions. Our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager's consent or the tenant's consent under our management agreements and leases. If, in these circumstances, the manager or the tenant does not consent, we may be prevented from taking actions which might be beneficial to our shareholders. Acquisitions that we make may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates additional acquisitions. We cannot assure our investors that we will be able to consummate further acquisitions or that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. Also, property operating costs for acquisitions may be higher than we anticipate and acquisitions of properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. We face competition for the acquisition of properties. We compete with pension funds, private equity investors, other REITs, owner operators and other businesses which are engaged in the acquisition of hospitality properties. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and more experienced personnel than we have. These competitors may affect the supply/demand dynamics for hospitality properties and, accordingly, increase the price we must pay for properties we seek to acquire. Furthermore, owners of hospitality properties who offer them for sale may find our competitors to be more attractive buyers because they may have greater financial resources, may be willing to pay more, or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, volatility in the U.S. capital markets may affect our ability to raise capital for acquisitions. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate acquisitions and ownership, including: •the illiquid nature of real estate markets which limits our ability to purchase or sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •management agreements or leases which are not renewed at expiration and may be replaced with management agreements or leases with less favorable terms or relet at lower rents; •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make capital expenditures to maintain our properties' values or due to contractual obligations or changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; •increased supply of similar properties in our markets; •catastrophic property and casualty losses, such as losses due to wars, terrorist attacks or natural disasters, some of which may be uninsured; and •defaults and bankruptcies by our managers or tenants. 43 Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks, and compliance with environmental and climate change laws may be costly. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Our hotel properties may be subject to environmental laws for certain hazardous substances used to maintain these properties, such as chemicals used to clean swimming pools, pesticides and lawn maintenance materials, and for other conditions, such as the presence of harmful mold. In particular, however, the travel centers we own and that TA leases from us include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damages. As a result, TA regularly incurs environmental cleanup costs. In the leases that we entered with TA, TA agreed to indemnify us from all environmental liabilities arising at any travel center property during the term of the leases. Despite this indemnity, various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising on properties they own or occupy, and we are not assured that we will not be held liable for environmental cleanup at our properties, including environmental damages at sites we own and lease to TA. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at the properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and TA may not have sufficient resources to pay its environmental liabilities and environmental indemnity to us. The negative impact on TA of the recent economic downturn and volatility in the petroleum markets and other factors may make it more likely that TA will be unable to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us in the event that environmental claims arise at our travel center properties. The ongoing political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our hotel and travel center properties to increase. We do not expect the direct impact of these increases to be material to our results of operations, because the increased costs either would be the responsibility of our tenants or operators directly or in the longer term, passed through and paid by customers of our properties. Although we do not believe it is likely in the foreseeable future, laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or the financial condition of our tenants or operators and their ability to pay rent or returns to us. We may experience losses from our business dealings with Affiliates Insurance Company. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, we have purchased property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we are currently investigating the possibilities to expand our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. AIC's business involves the risks typical of insurance businesses. Accordingly, our anticipated financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may be delayed or not achieved, and we may experience losses from these dealings. 44 Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our tax status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot assure that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our revolving credit facility, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our securities would likely decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable by U.S. corporations to individual stockholders is 15% through 2012. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that investment in REITs is less attractive than investment in non-REIT entities that pay dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares. Risks Related to Our Relationship with RMR Our management structure and our manager's other activities may create conflicts of interest. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contract by RMR. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has great latitude in determining the properties that will be proper investments for us, as well as making individual investment decisions for us. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our properties' operations, but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of various companies managed by RMR. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies managed by RMR. Such equity ownership and positions by our trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its affiliates. RMR also acts as the manager for three other publicly traded REITs: CWH, which primarily owns and operates commercial office and industrial buildings and leased industrial land; GOV, which owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants; and SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living properties and medical office buildings. RMR also provides management services to other public and private companies, including Five Star, which operates senior living communities, including independent living and congregate care communities, assisted living communities, nursing homes and hospitals, and TA, our largest tenant. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and RMR's other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and TA may create potential conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. 45 Our management agreements with RMR were negotiated between affiliated parties and may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if negotiated between unaffiliated parties. We pay RMR business management fees based upon the historical cost of our investments (including acquisition costs) which at any time may be more or less than the fair market value thereof, plus an incentive fee based upon certain increases in our cash available for distribution per share, as defined in our business management agreement with RMR. We also pay RMR property management fees for the office building component of one of our properties which also includes a hotel, based in part upon the gross rents we collect from tenants and the costs of construction we incur. For more information, see "Item 1. Business—Manager." Our fee arrangements with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions of properties, to undertake unnecessary construction activities or to overpay for acquisitions or construction. These arrangements may also encourage RMR to discourage sales of properties by us. Although we believe we benefit from our management by RMR, our management agreements were negotiated between affiliated parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been were they negotiated on an arm's length basis between unaffiliated parties. Our management agreements with RMR may discourage our change of control. Termination of our management agreements with RMR would be a default under our revolving credit facility unless approved by a majority of our lenders. The quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR may not be able to be duplicated by our being a self managed company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties, without considerable cost increases. For these reasons, our management agreements may discourage a change of control of us. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of financial distress or volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident trustee nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with trustees, affiliated persons and entities. Our relationship with RMR, with Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy and with RMR affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, even if they are without merit. We depend upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, source and complete new acquisitions for us on favorable terms and to execute our financing strategy on favorable terms. Because we are externally managed, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming a self managed company or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the management fees we pay RMR, and as a result our earnings and cash flows may decline. 46 Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and rights agreement, as well as certain provisions of Maryland and other laws, may prevent shareholders from receiving a takeover premium or implementing changes. Our declaration of trust or bylaws prohibit any shareholder other than RMR and its affiliates from owning more than 9.8% of any class or series of our outstanding shares. These provisions may assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise promote our orderly governance. However, these provisions may also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws and under Maryland and other laws may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be considered beneficial by some shareholders, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change in our control; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a trustee and a requirement that certain of our trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other trustees be "Independent Trustees"; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to propose nominees for election as trustees and propose other business for a meeting of shareholders; •the two thirds shareholder vote required for removal of trustees; •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; •the fact that only our Board of Trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; •a requirement that a shareholder who desires to nominate a person for election as Trustee or to propose other business not approved by our Board of Trustees at a meeting of our shareholders that would cause a breach or default of any debt instrument or agreement or other material agreement of ours, to provide (1) evidence of the lender's or contracting party's willingness to waive the breach of covenant or default or (2) a detailed plan for repayment of the applicable indebtedness or curing the contractual breach or default and satisfying any resulting damage, in each case, satisfactory to our Board of Trustees; and •the authority of our Board of Trustees to adopt certain amendments to our declaration of trust without shareholder approval, including the authority to increase or decrease the number of authorized shares, to create new classes or series of shares (including a class or series of shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium for our shares), to increase or decrease the number of shares of any class, and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of our shares or any new class of shares created by our Board of Trustees. We maintain a rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for any of our shares they own or otherwise effect a change of our policies. 47 Certain aspects of our business may prevent shareholders from accumulating large share ownership, from nominating or serving as trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business. Certain of our properties include gambling operations. Applicable state laws require that any shareholder who owns or controls 5% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to serve as one of our Trustees must be licensed or approved by the state regulators responsible for gambling operations. Similarly, as an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These approval and pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust and bylaws limit the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust, bylaws and indemnity contracts require us to indemnify our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and indemnity contracts or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with TA and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our trustees and officers may be referred to arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with TA and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders, including derivative and class actions, against us or against our trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against TA, RMR or our trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational and investment policies without shareholder approval. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions; and our Board of Trustees may change these policies or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a 48 vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Such policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our shares and our ability to make distributions to you. Risks Related to Our Securities Our Board of Trustees has the discretion to change our distribution policy from time to time, and there is no assurance that we will make distributions in the future. Our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by the risks described herein, including the recent U.S. recession and constraints in the U.S. capital markets. In April 2009, our Board of Trustees determined to suspend the payment of regular quarterly distributions on common shares for the remainder of 2009. The suspension was the result of conditions in the capital markets, including the severe limitations on the availability of equity or debt capital to us to meet our obligations which are senior to the common shares, including our debt maturities in 2010 through 2012. We resumed making regular quarterly distributions in January 2010, but we can provide no assurances that we will continue to pay distributions on our shares in the future, as we continue to evaluate capital market conditions and our own earnings and other circumstances. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains). Differences between our income for financial reporting purposes and for applicable federal income tax purposes may affect the determination of our required minimum common share distributions. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions or regarding the form of distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. Our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and our debt indenture. All our distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and the timing and amount of our future distributions will depend upon our earnings, our cash flows, our anticipated cash flows, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT tax status, our ability to access capital and such other factors as our Board of Trustees may deem relevant and make determinations regarding these matters from time to time. Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Substantially all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our revolving credit facility; none of our subsidiaries guaranty our outstanding notes. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, also effectively subordinated to any secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. 49 There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. There is no assurance that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market develops, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the hospitality industry generally. We may not have the cash necessary to pay the principal return and any net amount upon the conversion of our convertible notes or to repurchase the convertible notes or other debt on specified dates or following certain change in control transactions. As of December 31, 2010, we had $79.1 million of convertible notes outstanding. Upon a conversion of notes in accordance with their terms, we will be required to pay the principal return of these notes in cash. Furthermore, there may be circumstances that prevent the issuance of our common shares for all or any portion of any net amount deliverable upon the conversion of notes, thereby requiring us to satisfy our net amount obligation in cash. Holders of notes also have the right to require us to repurchase the notes for cash on March 20, 2012, March 15, 2017 and March 15, 2022 or upon the occurrence of certain change in control transactions prior to March 20, 2012. Some of our future debt agreements or securities may contain similar provisions. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the principal return and any such net cash amount or make the required repurchase of notes, as the case may be, in cash at the applicable time; and, in such circumstances, we may not be able to arrange the necessary financing on favorable terms. In addition, our ability to pay the principal return and any such net cash amount or make the required repurchase, as the case may be, may be limited by law or the terms of other debt agreements or securities. Moreover, our failure to pay the principal return and any such net cash amount or make the required repurchase, as the case may be, would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under other debt agreements or securities, thereby resulting in their acceleration and required prepayment and further restricting our ability to make such payments and repurchases. In certain change of control circumstances, our future noteholders and some of our other lenders may have the right to require us to purchase our notes which they own at their principal amount plus accrued interest and a premium. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by two rating agencies. One rating agency lowered our corporate credit, senior unsecured debt and preferred securities ratings in October 2010 and the other currently has our outlook as "negative". These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital, including the interest rate and fees payable under our revolving credit facility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 50 