Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Forward looking statements in this report and those made from time to time by us through our senior management are made under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements concerning the expected future revenues, earnings or financial results or concerning project plans, performance, or development of products and services, as well as other estimates related to future operations are necessarily only estimates of future results and there can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements represent management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our business will require additional funding, in the near term, which may not be available and could have a negative effect on our business. The Company will need to raise additional capital, debt or equity, in order to meet ongoing and future obligations. As such, the business is exposed to the risk that the Company may not be able to raise sufficient capital, when needed, to meet the ongoing and future obligations. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital, our business may not continue as a going concern. Even if we do find outside funding sources, we may be required to issue securities with greater rights than those currently possessed by holders of our common stock. We may also be required to take other actions that may lessen the value of our common stock or dilute our common stockholders, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us or issuing additional equity securities. If we experience difficulties raising money in the future, our business and liquidity will be materially adversely affected. Disruption in financial and currency markets could have a negative effect on our business. As has been widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to operate our business, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies, which can then lead to challenges in the operation of our business. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products and services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they will have on our business and financial condition. We have a history of losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability and may not continue as a going concern. We have experienced operating losses over the last several years and may continue to incur losses and negative operating cash flows. We cannot predict the size or duration of any future losses. We have historically financed our operations with proceeds from debt financings and the sale of equity securities. We anticipate that we will continue to incur net losses in the future. As a result, we cannot assure that we will achieve profitability or be capable of sustaining profitable operations. If we are unable to reach and sustain profitability, we risk depleting our working capital balances and our business may not continue as a going concern. 9 Securities we issue to fund our operations could dilute or otherwise adversely affect our stockholders. We need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to fund our operations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, or if we issue additional equity securities to acquire assets, a business or another company, the percentage ownership of current stockholders will be reduced. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities, we may be required to agree to covenants that substantially restrict our ability to operate our business. We may not obtain sufficient financing on terms that are favorable to investors or us. We may delay, limit or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations if adequate funds are not available. In addition, upon issuance of the shares of common stock upon exercise of outstanding warrants or stock options, the percentage ownership of current stockholders will be diluted substantially. The unpredictability of our quarterly results may cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any one of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Factors that can impact our stock price include the implementation of our new business strategy, which makes prediction of future revenues difficult. Our ability to accurately forecast revenues from sales of our products is further limited by the development and sales cycles related to our products, which make it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenues, and our expenses are generally fixed, particularly in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Any significant shortfall of revenues in relation to our expectations could cause significant declines in our quarterly operating results. Due to the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter or period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be good indicators of our future performance. Our operating results for any particular quarter may fall short of our expectations or those of stockholders or securities analysts. In this event, the trading price of our common stock would likely fall. Other factors can cause our stock price to be volatile and it may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years. Since January 2007, our common stock has closed as low as $0.06 per share and as high as $1.80 per share. These fluctuations often have no direct relationship to our operating performance. The market price for our common stock may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Some of these factors include: • the results and effects of litigation; • our financial performance and prospects; • sales by selling stockholders of shares issued and issuable in connection with our private placements; • general financial and other market conditions; and • domestic and international economic conditions. 10 In addition, some companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation or other litigation or investigations. Litigation often results in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could harm our business, prospects, results of operations, or financial condition. A small number of affiliated stockholders control more than 10% of our stock. Our executive officers and directors as a group own or control approximately ten percent (10%) of our common stock and four investors collectively own approximately forty-six percent (46%) of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock price may be negatively impacted if it is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our common stock is currently listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We must continue to satisfy NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, including a minimum stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million and a minimum bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share, or risk delisting which would have a material adverse affect on our business. A delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market could materially reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in a corresponding material reduction in the price of our common stock. In addition, delisting could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors, suppliers, customers and employees. On December 28, 2007, the Company received a notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that it was not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”) because, for 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company’s common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share. In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), the Company was provided 180 calendar days, or until June 25, 2008, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. The Company did not regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule by June 25, 2008 and, accordingly, on June 26, 2008, the Company received written notification (the “Staff Determination”) from The NASDAQ Stock Market stating that the Company’s common stock would be subject to delisting as a result of the deficiency unless the Company requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”). On July 3, 2008, the Company requested a hearing before the Panel to address the minimum bid price deficiency, which stayed any action with respect to the Staff Determination until the Panel rendered a decision subsequent to the hearing. On September 15, 2008, the Company received an extension from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. 11 Subsequently, the Company received notification that NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price or a minimum market value of publicly held shares. NASDAQ has said that it will not take any action to delist any security for these concerns during the suspension. NASDAQ has extended the temporary suspension until July 20, 2009. As a result of this extension, if, at any time before September 28, 2009, the bid price of the Company's common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, NASDAQ will provide written notification that it has achieved compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. As of December 31, 2008, we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(3) regarding the minimum $2.5 million stockholders’ equity requirement, but we have not yet received a notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market regarding the deficiency. There is no assurance that we will regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule or with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement and our common stock may ultimately be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If the Company becomes delisted from the NASDAQ, the Company would either trade on the over-the-counter bulletin board (OTCBB) or “pink-sheets (PK)”. If the Company’s stock were to trade on the pink sheets, the Company would be in default of one or more debt obligations which could cause an acceleration of amounts due to lenders. If this occurred, it would have a material impact on the business. We face risks related to securities and other litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we have been and may continue to be in the subject of class action litigation or other litigation or investigations. Litigation often results in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could harm our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. An impairment of goodwill and/or long-lived assets could affect net income. We record goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of business combinations as and when consummated and we make significant investment in long-lived assets. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically assess the value of both goodwill and long-lived assets in light of current circumstances to determine whether impairment has occurred. We perform our annual impairment analysis as of the end of our fiscal year. If an impairment should occur, we would reduce the carrying amount to our fair market value and record an amount of that reduction as a non-cash charge to income, which could adversely affect our net income reported in that quarter in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting segments and implied fair value of goodwill, the impairment analysis is highly sensitive to the actual versus forecast results. As such, it is possible that a material change could occur and if our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, the Company may be required to perform an impairment analysis in advance of its annual impairment testing. The Company will monitor the business performance, macro business environment, and enterprise value of the Company to assess and determine if an interim impairment analysis may be necessary. As such, it is possible that the Company could write down assets before its annual impairment test which could have a material impact on the net income for that reporting period. In addition, the write down of such assets could cause various of the Company’s debt obligations to default resulting in the acceleration of amounts due to lenders which would have a material impact on the business. We cannot definitively determine whether impairments will occur in the future, and if impairments do occur, what the timing or the extent would be. The loss of key personnel or the inability to recruit additional personnel may harm our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers, our senior and middle management and our technical and research personnel. In particular, the loss of Mark W. Blodgett, our President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or other key personnel, could harm us significantly. Hiring qualified management and technical personnel will be difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals in the work force in general and the intense competition for these types of employees. The loss of key management personnel or an inability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified management personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future prospects. 12 We depend on a limited number of suppliers and may not be able to ship products on time if we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of raw materials and equipment on a timely basis. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials and equipment used to manufacture our products. We depend on our suppliers to supply critical components in adequate quantities, consistent quality and at reasonable costs. If our suppliers are unable to meet our demand for critical components at reasonable costs, and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source, or the price for an alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be harmed. We generally rely on purchase orders rather than long-term agreements with our suppliers; therefore, our suppliers may stop supplying materials and equipment to us at any time. If we are unable to obtain components in adequate quantities we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet demand for our products, which could harm our revenues and damage our relationships with customers and prospective customers. We have many competitors in our field and our technologies may not remain competitive. We participate in a rapidly evolving field in which technological developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We have many competitors in the United States and abroad, including various fiber optic component manufacturers, universities and other private and public research institutions. Our major competitors in the specialty fiber optic market segment are OFS division of Furukawa Electric Co. Ltd, , Fibercore Ltd. and Corning Inc. In the laser market, we compete against Power Technology, Inc. in the United States, Schafter & Kirchoff GMBH in Europe and several other smaller laser manufacturers. Our high-intensity LED systems compete with LED systems of Elcos, a subsidiary of Perkin Elmer, and Schott North America Inc. and Schott AG. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain a competitive position in the product categories and technologies on which we focus. To be successful in the laser and optical components industries, we will need to keep pace with rapid changes in technology, customer expectations, and new product introductions by competitors and evolving industry standards, any of which could render our existing products obsolete if we fail to respond in a timely manner. We could experience delays in introduction of new products. If others develop innovative proprietary laser products or optical components that are superior to ours, or if we fail to accurately anticipate technology and market trends and respond on a timely basis with our own innovations, our competitive position may be harmed and we may not achieve sufficient growth in our revenues to attain or sustain profitability. Many of our competitors have greater capabilities and experience and greater financial, marketing and operational resources than us. Competition is intense and is expected to increase as new products enter the market and new technologies become available. To the extent that competition in our markets intensifies, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. If we do not compete effectively, or if we reduce our prices without making commensurate reductions in our costs, our revenues and profitability, and our future prospects for success, may be harmed. Our customers are not obligated to buy material amounts of our products and may cancel or defer purchases on short notice. Our customers typically purchase our products under individual purchase orders rather than long-term contracts or contracts with minimum purchase requirements. Therefore, our customers may cancel, reduce or defer purchases on short notice without significant penalty. Accordingly, sales in a particular period are difficult to predict. Decreases in purchases, cancellations of purchase orders or deferrals of purchases may have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if we do not anticipate them. There can be no assurance that our revenue from key customers will not decline in future periods. 13 Our products could contain defects, which could result in reduced sales of those products or in claims against us. Despite testing both by us and our customers, errors have been found and may be found in the future in our existing or future products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationship with our customers. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our illumination and optical products could result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. We are subject to risks of operating internationally. We distribute and sell some of our products internationally, and our success depends in part on our ability to manage our international operations. Sales outside the United States accounted for 46% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. We are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: • foreign currency risks; • costs of customizing products for foreign countries; • imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into dollars; • remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments on foreign subsidiaries; • hyperinflation and imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • longer sales cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; • labor practices, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, political instability and potentially adverse tax consequence; and • import and export restrictions and tariffs. If we are unable to manage these risks, we may face significant liability, our international sales may decline and our financial results may be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 