Item 1a. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks may affect us. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Failure to successfully execute our growth, operating and cross-selling strategies can negatively impact our profitability. Our financial performance and profitability depends on our ability to execute our corporate growth, operating and cross-selling strategies. Future acquisitions and continued growth can present operating and other issues that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial performance will also depend on our ability to maintain profitable operations through implementation of our banking and financial services philosophies, including our efforts to cross-sell our various products and services, which were described earlier. Regional presences, related economic conditions and credit concentrations could adversely affect our operating results. Our focus in the Arizona, Minnesota and North Dakota regions could adversely affect our results of operations if economic and business conditions in any of these regions were to exhibit weaknesses. A prolonged decline in economic or business conditions in our market areas, in particular in those industries in which we have 12 credit concentrations, could have a material impact on the quality of our loan portfolio or the demand for our other products and services, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Weakening in the national economy might further exacerbate local or regional economic conditions. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted. Devaluation of assets could adversely impact earnings and capital adequacy. Our financial performance and regulatory capital is influenced by asset values. Cash positions can be devalued by inflation and devaluation of the dollar. Many types of investments can be devalued by illiquidity and declines in the assets supporting the investments. Real estate loans can be devalued by declines in their collateral. Commercial business loans can be devalued when businesses suffer in a recessionary environment. Maturities of debt can be accelerated when the assets collateralizing debt devalue. Many types of assets in the United States have recently experienced devaluation. Devaluation of our assets or assets collateralizing our loans could adversely impact earnings and regulatory capital. Changes in market interest rates can significantly impact our earnings. Changes in interest rates impact the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and investment securities, rates paid on deposits and borrowings and the value of our derivative contracts and their associated impact on earnings. The relationship between the interest income received on loans and investment securities and interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings is known as net interest income. The level of net interest income can fluctuate given changes in market interest rates. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios and using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulation is presented at “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from other financial services providers could adversely impact our results of operations. The banking and financial services business is highly competitive. We face competition in making loans, attracting deposits and providing trust and other financial services. Increased competition in the banking and financial services businesses may reduce our market share, impair our growth or cause the prices we charge for our services to decline. Our results of operations may differ in future periods depending upon the level and nature of competition we encounter in our various market areas. Failure to perform on behalf of borrowers, guarantors and related parties exposes us to risk of loss that can materially adversely affect our results of operations. We encounter significant sources of risk from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, commitments or letters of credit. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and methodological review and analysis of the allowance for credit losses. We believe these processes and procedures are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Loss of key employees may disrupt relationships with certain customers. Our business is primarily relationship-driven in that many of our key employees have extensive customer relationships. Loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor. While we believe our relationship with our key producers is good, we cannot guarantee that all of our key personnel will remain with our organization. Loss of such key personnel, should they enter into an employment relationship with one of our competitors, could result in the loss of some of our customers. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None 13 