Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this report, we are subject to the following risks, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations in the future. You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in the Company’s common stock. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and the related notes. Various statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including some of the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Turnaround Initiative The Company’s turnaround and restructuring efforts may not achieve the intended benefits. The Company has instituted turnaround initiatives to increase productivity and lower costs; however, our efforts in these regards are not proven and may not be effective or successful. If our turnaround efforts fail to perform as we anticipate, we may implement additional turnaround and restructuring efforts. The Company’s turnaround efforts to date and any future efforts have placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on the Company’s managerial, operational, financial, and other resources. We might fail to execute our turnaround plan. The execution of our turnaround plan entails significant risks and costs, and we might not succeed in operating under our turnaround plan for many reasons. Because we necessarily lack historical operating and financial results 6 Table of Contents for our turnaround business model, it will be difficult for us, as well as for investors, to predict or evaluate our business prospects and performance. Our business prospects would need to be considered in light of the uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies undergoing a business transition. We might not be able to execute under our turnaround plan if we lose key management or technical personnel, on whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise we rely. Our success under our turnaround plan will depend heavily upon the contributions of our key management and technical personnel, whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. Many of these individuals have been with us for several years and have developed specialized knowledge and skills relating to our technology and lines of business. Over the last year we have had substantial turnover in our executive management team, including the separations of our former chief executive officer and chief financial officer in 2007. Some executives have joined us in key management roles only recently. In January 2007, Kevin J. Thimjon was appointed to serve as our chief financial officer and was subsequently promoted to serve as our President in February 2008, and Clinton J. Coleman was appointed as our chief executive officer on an interim basis in July 2007. We might not be able to execute on our turnaround if we were to lose the services of any of our key personnel. If any of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor develops the necessary training and experience. Risks Related to our Transaction with Velocita The Transaction with Velocita may not be completed if the conditions to closing are not satisfied or waived. There is a risk that the proposed Transaction with Velocita may not be completed because the conditions to closing, including regulatory approvals and required consents from third parties, may not be satisfied or waived. In addition, both Velocita and the Company have the right to terminate the Velocita Purchase Agreement upon the occurrence or non-occurrence of certain events or if the closing of the Transaction is not completed prior to a specified date. If the proposed Transaction is not completed or if the Velocita Purchase Agreement is terminated, it is possible that we will have difficulty recouping the costs incurred in connection with negotiating the proposed Transaction, we will not realize the anticipated cash proceeds from the sale to finance our continuing operations and our business may be seriously harmed. If the Transaction is not completed, we may incur operating losses in our SkyTel Business. Since our acquisition of the SkyTel Business, we have incurred net operating losses in our SkyTel Business. While the Company has implemented several cost reduction initiatives which have allowed the SkyTel division to generate operating profits in early 2008, there continues to be a risk that continued reductions in the revenues of the SkyTel division may cause the SkyTel division to generate operating losses in the future. It is possible that we may not receive all of the cash provided for in the Velocita Purchase Agreement and accordingly, we may have less cash to fund our remaining operations. Pursuant to the Velocita Purchase Agreement, if the net current assets, as defined, of the SkyTel Business as of the closing are less than a negative $1.6 million, the amount of cash we will receive under the Velocita Purchase Agreement will be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis. In addition, we have agreed in the Velocita Asset Purchase Agreement to indemnify Velocita in certain circumstances, including if we breach our representations, warranties or covenants in the Velocita Purchase Agreement and if Velocita incurs any damages as a result of liabilities that we agreed to retain. At the closing of the Transaction, Velocita will issue to us a secured promissory note with a principle amount of $5.0 million. In certain circumstances, Velocita may be entitled to withhold from the amounts due and payable under the note to the extent we have not otherwise performed under our indemnification obligations under the Velocita Purchase Agreement. In the event that Velocita becomes entitled to any such indemnification under the Velocita Purchase Agreement and exercises its rights to offset such losses against the note, the amount of cash we have available in the future will be reduced. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will receive these funds. 7 Table of Contents Under the Velocita Purchase Agreement we will continue to be exposed to contingent liabilities relating to the SkyTel Business and the Transaction, which could adversely affect our financial condition. In the Velocita Purchase Agreement, we have made customary representations and warranties to Velocita. Pursuant to the Velocita Purchase Agreement, we agreed to indemnify Velocita for any losses from breaches of our representations, warranties or covenants that occur within certain periods after the closing, subject to certain maximum amounts. In addition, we have agreed to retain all liabilities relating to the SkyTel Business that are not being expressly assumed by Velocita, and to indemnify Velocita for any claims or damages arising from such retained liabilities. If we incur any such indemnification obligations following completion of the Transaction, it could adversely impact our cash resources and our ability to operate and grow our other businesses. If the proposed Transaction with Velocita is not completed, we may explore other potential transactions but there may not be any other offers from potential acquirors. If the Transaction with Velocita is not completed, we will continue to operate our historical businesses, including the SkyTel Business. We may explore other strategic alternatives, including a sale of the SkyTel Business to another party, or we may pursue other business opportunities and investments unrelated to our current business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully pursue any such strategic alternatives or that any potential transaction will provide consideration equal to or greater than the price proposed to be paid by Velocita in the Transaction. If the proposed Transaction with Velocita is not completed, we may need additional funds to continue or grow our existing business and we may not have sufficient funds to continue the SkyTel business. If the proposed Transaction with Velocita is not completed, we will continue to operate our SkyTel Business. We believe that we will need additional funding to continue the development of our historical businesses and the SkyTel Business. To the extent that we do not obtain needed capital for our historical businesses through the sale of the SkyTel Business, we may have to obtain it through the issuance of additional debt or equity, or through other means. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such funding or enter into such relationships on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain any funding upon acceptable terms. Failure to obtain such funding or enter into such relationships could seriously harm our business. Our business will be harmed if the proposed Transaction with Velocita disrupts the operations of our business and prevents us from realizing intended benefits. Prior to the closing of the Transaction, our business operations may be disrupted due to a number of factors, any of which could harm our business or ability to complete the proposed Transaction. These factors include: • loss of key employees, sales representatives, vendors, or customers; • expenses incurred in connection with the proposed Transaction; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business. We may be required to make substantial concessions to our secured lenders in order to obtain the necessary consents to consummate the Transaction. The consents of our secured lenders to the Transaction are required under the terms of the Velocita Purchase Agreement and under the terms of our credit agreements with our secured lenders. In particular, Newcastle Partners, L.P., which is the holder of a $10 million convertible promissory issued by the Company in January 2007, holds a subordinated security interest in substantially all of our assets, including the assets of the SkyTel Business. The cash we expect to receive upon the closing of the Transaction will not be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal and interest on the convertible promissory note. Newcastle has requested substantial modifications to the terms of its convertible note as consideration for its consent to the Transaction, which represents the sale of a substantial portion of the collateral securing the Company’s debt to Newcastle. Among other things, Newcastle has requested a significant reduction to the conversion price of the convertible note, certain additional rights to appoint members of our board of directors and warrants to acquire a significant amount of additional shares of our common stock. The 8 Table of Contents members of our board of directors that are not affiliated with Newcastle have formed a special committee to review and analyze the Newcastle proposal, as well as other alternatives available to the Company. The Company cannot make assurances that it will be able to refinance the convertible note, whether through additional debt or equity, on commercially reasonable terms, terms more favorable that those being offered by Newcastle or at all. If we agree to the Proposed Modifications, including issuance of the Warrant and an amended Convertible Note, Newcastle may have the ability to acquire in excess of a majority of our outstanding common stock, as well as the right to designate at least 50% of the members of our Board of Directors, which could give Newcastle control over the management of our business to the detriment of our other shareholders. Newcastle currently beneficially owns approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock (including common stock issuable upon exercise of their Convertible Note). In addition, Newcastle currently has the right to designate two of our board members (which currently includes our current Chief Executive Officer) and a preemptive right to acquire additional securities in the event we propose to issue any additional securities. In connection with the Proposed Modifications, Newcastle would be issued a warrant to acquire additional shares of our outstanding common stock and, under the proposed terms of the amended Convertible Note, Newcastle may have the right to acquire in excess of a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Newcastle could have the ability to exercise a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Newcastle’s ability to designate at least 50% of our directors could dictate the management of our business and affairs. The interests of Newcastle may differ from other shareholders’ interests. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent, or deter a change in control and could deprive other shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our business. Furthermore, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling shareholders. Risks Relating to the Company’s Capital Structure The Company’s ability to make payments on its debt will be contingent on the Company’s future operating performance, which will depend on a number of factors that are outside of its control. As of December 31, 2007, we had $4.8 million of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facility, as amended with WFF. The facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. After the completion of the sale of our AVL Business, we paid down all of the indebtedness under the credit facility using the funds received from the sale, but we have since borrowed on the credit facility to fund our ongoing operations. On April 11, 2008, we amended our credit facility with WFF to give effect to the SkyGuard Purchase Agreement and the Velocita Purchase Agreement. This amendment resulted in the modification of the calculation of the profitability covenants to exclude the results of the AVL Business and the SkyTel Business and amended the minimum profitability covenants as of December 31, 2007 and the four quarters of the year ended December 31, 2008. The amendment also resulted in an increase in the margin on our borrowing rates by 50 basis points effective May 1, 2008. The Company’s ability to make principal and interest payments on its debt to WFF is contingent on its future operating performance, which will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside of its control. The degree to which the Company is leveraged could have other important negative consequences, including the following: • the Company must dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows from operations to the payment of its indebtedness, reducing the funds available for future working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • a portion of its borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; • the Company may be more vulnerable to a downturn in the industries in which it operates or a downturn in the economy in general; 9 Table of Contents • the Company may be limited in its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its businesses and the industries in which it operates; • the Company may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; • the Company may be limited in its ability to react to unforeseen increases in certain costs and obligations arising in its existing or previously owned businesses, including environmental, legal and tax liabilities; • the Company may determine it to be necessary to dispose of certain assets or one or more of its businesses to reduce its debt; and • the Company’s ability to borrow additional funds may be limited. The Company can provide no assurance that its businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs. Moreover, the Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity or in connection with the closing of the Transaction. In such a case, the Company cannot make assurances that it will be able to refinance any of its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to make scheduled debt payments or comply with the other provisions of its debt instruments, the Company’s various lenders may be permitted under certain circumstances to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness owed to them and exercise other remedies provided for in those instruments and under applicable law. The Company is subject to restrictive debt covenants pursuant to its indebtedness. These covenants may restrict its ability to finance its business and, if the Company does not comply with the covenants or otherwise default under them, the Company may not have the funds necessary to pay all amounts that could become due and the lenders could foreclose on substantially all of its assets. The Company’s indebtedness contains covenants that, among other things, significantly restricts and, in some cases, effectively eliminates the Company’s ability and the ability of any of its subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • create or incur liens; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions to the Company’s shareholders; • purchase or redeem share capital; • make investments; • sell assets; • issue or sell share capital of certain subsidiaries; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • issue or become liable on a guarantee; • voluntarily prepay, repurchase or redeem debt; • create or acquire new subsidiaries; and • effect a merger or consolidation of, or sell all or substantially all of its assets. In addition, the Company must comply with certain financial covenants under its revised credit facility with WFF. In the event the Company was to fail to meet any of such covenants and were unable to cure such breach or otherwise renegotiate such covenants, the Company’s lenders would have significant rights to deny future access to liquidity and/or seize control of substantially all of its assets. The financial covenants with which the Company must comply include minimum EBITDA and maximum capital expenditures. The covenants contained in the Company’s indebtedness and any credit agreement governing future debt may significantly restrict its future operations. Furthermore, upon the occurrence of any event of default, the Company’s lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such agreements, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If those lenders were to accelerate the payment of those amounts, the Company cannot assure you that its assets and the assets of its subsidiaries would be sufficient to repay those amounts in full. 10 Table of Contents The Company is also subject to interest rate risk due to its indebtedness at variable interest rates, based on a base rate or LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The Company cannot assure you that shifts in interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on it. Our common stock will not be traded on a national securities exchange. On April 14, 2008, we filed a Form 25 with the SEC in order to voluntarily delist our common stock from the American Stock Exchange. We currently expect that the delisting of our common stock becoming effective ten days thereafter. After withdrawal of our common stock from listing on the American Stock Exchange, we expect that the shares will be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. There can be no assurances that a market maker will make a market in our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board or any other stock quotation system. Furthermore, securities quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, not only in the number of shares that can be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage, and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock, our common stock is more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. Our ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future, may also be materially and adversely affected by the fact that our securities are not traded on a national securities exchange. The fact that our common stock is not traded on a national securities exchange could also have other adverse effects on us in addition to the foregoing, including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in us by current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships. Risks Related to the Company’s Operations We have a history of operating losses. We have incurred net losses in each of the past five fiscal years. As of December 31, 2007 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $30.5 million. If our future revenues in each of our business units do not meet our expectations, or if operating expenses exceed what we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face certain significant risks related to the currently pending Williams litigation and from other potential litigation that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have been engaged in ongoing litigation in connection with our 1997 purchase of Milgray Electronics, Inc., a publicly traded New York corporation, which was named as a defendant in an action alleging common law fraud and other infractions related to Williams’ purchase of electronic components at allegedly inflated prices from 1991 to 1996. Although the outcome of this litigation cannot be predicted, an adverse verdict could have a materially adverse effect on us. The defense of this lawsuit has required a significant amount of our management’s time and attention and, even if we prevail in defending this lawsuit, we will incur additional legal and related expenses. The disruptive effect and expense of this litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Although we have reached an agreement in principle to settle with Williams, the agreement is conditioned upon, among other things, the closing of the Transaction. We also may become subject to other litigation in the future. Our previously owned businesses subject us to potential environmental liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental statutes, ordinances and regulations relating to disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances and wastes used or generated in connection 11 Table of Contents with previously owned businesses. Such laws may impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of such hazardous substances. Although we establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities, which reserves we believe to be adequate, there may be potential undisclosed environmental liabilities or liability in excess of the amounts reserved. Compliance with these environmental laws could require us to incur substantial expenses. We may not be able to compete effectively with other companies in our business segments, which will cause our net sales and market share to decline and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are highly competitive and we face strong competition from competitors that are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We believe that our prices and delivery terms are competitive; however, our competitors may offer more aggressive pricing than we do. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competitive pricing pressures in our businesses, which could require us to reduce prices, with a corresponding adverse impact on our operating results. Additionally, as competition in the technology industry has intensified, certain of our key technology suppliers have heightened their direct marketing initiatives. These initiatives have resulted in some of our clients electing to purchase technology products directly from the manufacturer, rather than through us. While we expect these initiatives to continue, there could be a material adverse impact on our business if the shift of clients to purchase directly from manufacturers occurs more quickly than anticipated. We may need to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy new reporting requirements. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2007. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements may significantly increase our costs and require additional management time and resources. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices could affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations or accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results and comply with the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. As a result, current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Exchange Act, which could adversely affect our business and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), we are required, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K, our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, the registered public accounting firm’s attestation report on our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. We have completed our compliance for management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and implemented a plan for compliance with the accounting firm’s attestation report requirements of Section 404. See Item 9.A(T). for management’s report. As set forth in management’s report, we identified one material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the sale of our SkyTel division. We cannot guarantee that we will not have any additional “significant deficiencies” or “material weaknesses” within our processes. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, any failure to establish and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and 12 Table of Contents procedures could cause our current and potential stockholders and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Exchange Act, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to the Company’s Technology Solutions Business We rely on a limited number of hardware and software vendors to supply us with products in our technology solutions business and the loss of our ability to rely upon any of those vendors, or to obtain their products in the future would adversely affect our results of operations. Our technology solutions business is heavily dependent on our relationships with leading hardware and software vendors and on our status as an authorized service provider. Although we are currently authorized to service the products of many industry-leading hardware and software vendors, we may not be able to maintain our relationships, or attract new relationships, with the computer hardware and software vendors that may be necessary for our technology solutions business. Since we rely upon our vendor relationships as a marketing tool, any change in these relationships could adversely affect our results of operations while we seek to establish alternative relationships with other vendors. In general, our authorization agreements with vendors include termination provisions, some of which are immediate, and we cannot predict whether vendors will continue to authorize us as an approved service provider. In addition, we cannot predict whether those vendors will authorize us as an approved service provider for new products, which they may introduce. Any impairment of these vendor relationships, or the loss of authorization as an approved service provider, could adversely affect our ability to provide the products and services which our technology solutions business requires and harm our competitive position. In addition, significant product supply shortages have resulted from time to time because manufacturers have been unable to produce sufficient quantities of certain products to meet demand. We expect to experience difficulty from time to time in obtaining an adequate supply of products from our major vendors, which may result in delays in completing sales. Our technology solutions business is dependent on a limited number of major clients and the loss of any of these major clients would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales of products and services in our technology solutions business has been and is expected to continue to be concentrated in a small number of clients. Two of our clients accounted for approximately 30% of our total revenues for 2007 in our technology solutions business. In the event that any of these major clients should cease to purchase products or services from us, or purchase significantly fewer products and services in the future, we could experience materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our technology solutions business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market. The demand for our technology products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer hardware and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the past, adverse economic conditions decreased demand for our products and negatively impacted our financial results. Future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain. If an uncertain information technology spending environment persists, it could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our contracts can be terminated by our clients on short notice and in many cases without penalty. We also generally do not have exclusive arrangements with our clients or a minimum revenue commitment from our clients, which creates uncertainty about the volume of services we will provide and the amount of revenues we will generate from these clients. Many of our clients could terminate their relationship with us or significantly reduce their demand for our services due to a variety of factors, including factors that are unpredictable and outside of our control. In addition, in many cases, we are not the exclusive provider of outsourcing services to our clients. The services we provide to a 13 Table of Contents client could be reduced for a variety of reasons, including our client’s decision to move more customer management functions in-house, or to an affiliated outsourcing provider or one of our competitors, changing economic factors, internal financial challenges or political or public relations reasons. Any significant reduction in client demand for our services could negatively impact our business, results of operation and financial condition. Risks Related to the Company’s Recreational Products Business Our recreational products business is seasonal and is subject to fluctuations, based upon various economic and climatic conditions that could harm us. Sales of our recreational products are affected directly by the usage levels and purchases of recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs, and marine products. The purchase and, in particular, the usage of these types of vehicles, are affected by weather conditions. As a result, sales of our recreational products business are highly susceptible to unpredictable events, and ordinarily decline in the winter months resulting in losses during these periods of the year. Additionally, unusual weather conditions in a particular season, such as unusually cold weather in the spring or summer months, can cause period-to-period fluctuations in our sales of recreational products. The usage and purchases of recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs, and marine products are also affected by consumers’ level of discretionary income and their confidence about economic conditions and changes in interest rates and in the availability and cost of gasoline. As a result, sales of our recreational products can fluctuate based upon unpredictable circumstances that are outside of our control. Our recreational products business relies heavily upon vendors with which we have no long-term contracts. We do not have long term supply contracts with our recreational products suppliers, which may adversely affect the terms on which we purchase products for resale or result in our inability to purchase products from one or more of such vendors in the future. These vendors may choose to distribute their products directly to aftermarket dealers or establish exclusive supply relationships with other distributors. Additionally, manufacturers of new recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs, and marine products may choose to incorporate optional equipment as standard equipment on their vehicles at the time of manufacture that are similar to products available for sale to dealers by distributors such as us. In addition to decreased sales, we would encounter increased competition in our markets, or may be unable to offer certain products to our customers, upon any such changes in our relationships with our recreational products vendors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 