Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this report, we are subject to the following risks, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations in the future. You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in the Company’s common stock. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and the related notes. Various statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including some of the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to the Company’s Capital Structure The Company’s ability to make payments on its debt will be contingent on the Company’s future operating performance, which will depend on a number of factors that are outside of its control. In connection with the acquisition of SkyTel, the Company incurred a significant amount of secured debt. The Company also anticipates that it will continue to borrow under its credit facility to finance working capital requirements and capital expenditures. This debt service may have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings and cash flow, which could in turn negatively impact our stock price. The Company’s ability to make principal and interest payments on its debt is contingent on its future operating performance, which will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside of its control. The degree to which the Company is leveraged could have other important negative consequences, including the following: • the Company must dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows from operations to the payment of its indebtedness, reducing the funds available for future working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • a portion of its borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; • the Company may be more vulnerable to a downturn in the industries in which it operates or a downturn in the economy in general; • the Company may be limited in its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its businesses and the industries in which it operates; • the Company may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; • the Company may be limited in its ability to react to unforeseen increases in certain costs and obligations arising in its existing or previously owned businesses, including environmental, legal and tax liabilities; • the Company may determine it to be necessary to dispose of certain assets or one or more of its businesses to reduce its debt; and • the Company’s ability to borrow additional funds may be limited. The Company can provide no assurance that its businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs. Moreover, the Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. In such a case, the Company cannot make assurances that it will be able to refinance any of its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to make scheduled debt payments or comply with the other provisions of its debt instruments, the Company’s various lenders may be permitted under certain circumstances to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness owed to them and exercise other remedies provided for in those instruments and under applicable law. 3 Table of Contents The Company is subject to restrictive debt covenants pursuant to its indebtedness. These covenants may restrict its ability to finance its business and, if the Company does not comply with the covenants or otherwise default under them, the Company may not have the funds necessary to pay all amounts that could become due and the lenders could foreclose on substantially all of its assets. The Company’s indebtedness contains covenants that, among other things, significantly restricts and, in some cases, effectively eliminates the Company’s ability and the ability of any of its subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • create or incur liens; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions to the Company’s shareholders; • purchase or redeem share capital; • make investments; • sell assets; • issue or sell share capital of certain subsidiaries; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • issue or become liable on a guarantee; • voluntarily prepay, repurchase or redeem debt; • create or acquire new subsidiaries; and • effect a merger or consolidation of, or sell all or substantially all of its assets. In addition, the Company must comply with certain financial covenants. In the event the Company was to fail to meet any of such covenants and were unable to cure such breach or otherwise renegotiate such covenants, the Company’s lenders would have significant rights to deny future access to liquidity and/or seize control of substantially all of its assets. The financial covenants with which the Company must comply include minimum EBITDA and maximum capital expenditures. The covenants contained in the Company’s indebtedness and any credit agreement governing future debt may significantly restrict its future operations. Furthermore, upon the occurrence of any event of default, the Company’s lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such agreements, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If those lenders were to accelerate the payment of those amounts, the Company cannot assure you that its assets and the assets of its subsidiaries would be sufficient to repay those amounts in full. The Company is also subject to interest rate risk due to its indebtedness at variable interest rates, based on a base rate or LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The Company cannot assure you that shifts in interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on it. Risks Related to the Company’s Operations We have a history of operating losses. We have incurred net losses in each of the past five fiscal years. As of December 31, 2006 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $15.4 million. If our future revenues in each of our business units do not meet our expectations, or if operating expenses exceed what we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 4 Table of Contents We face certain significant risks related to the currently pending Williams litigation and from other potential litigation that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have been engaged in ongoing litigation in connection with our 1997 purchase of Milgray Electronics, Inc., a publicly traded New York corporation, which was named as a defendant by the plaintiff, Williams Electronics Games, Inc. (“Williams”), in an action alleging common law fraud and other infractions related to Williams’ purchase of electronic components at allegedly inflated prices from 1991 to 1996. Although the outcome of this litigation cannot be predicted, an adverse verdict could have a materially adverse effect on us. The defense of this lawsuit has required a significant amount of our management’s time and attention and, even if we prevail in defending this lawsuit, we will incur additional legal and related expenses. The disruptive effect and expense of this litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. We also may become subject to other litigation in the future. Our previously owned businesses subject us to potential environmental liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental statutes, ordinances and regulations relating to disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances and wastes used or generated in connection with previously owned businesses. Such laws may impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of such hazardous substances. Although we establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities, which reserves we believe to be adequate, there may be potential undisclosed environmental liabilities or liability in excess of the amounts reserved. Compliance with these environmental laws could require us to incur substantial expenses. We may not be able to compete effectively with other companies in our business segments, which will cause our net sales and market share to decline and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are highly competitive and we face strong competition from competitors that are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We believe that our prices and delivery terms are competitive; however, our competitors may offer more aggressive pricing than we do. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competitive pricing pressures in our businesses, which could require us to reduce prices, with a corresponding adverse impact on our operating results. Additionally, as competition in the technology industry has intensified, certain of our key technology suppliers have heightened their direct marketing initiatives. These initiatives have resulted in some of our clients electing to purchase technology products directly from the manufacturer, rather than through us. While we expect these initiatives to continue, there could be a material adverse impact on our business if the shift of clients to purchase directly from manufacturers occurs more quickly than anticipated. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our businesses, our ability to compete successfully will be adversely affected. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers, management and technical personnel. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our current business plans and successfully develop commercially viable products and services. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we might not be able to retain our existing key employees or attract and retain any additional personnel. In addition, our recent financial operating results may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel. 5 Table of Contents We may pursue and execute acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance and grow our business. In January 2007, we completed the acquisition of SkyTel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, unanticipated costs, diversion of management’s attention from our core business, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and clients, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire. The integration of businesses can be a complex, time consuming and expensive process. Acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock that dilutes the ownership of our current shareholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill and non-amortizable assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis, incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy new reporting requirements. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2007. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements may significantly increase our costs and require additional management time and resources. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations or accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct business. Risks Related to the Company’s Technology Solutions Business We rely on a limited number of hardware and software vendors to supply us with products in our technology solutions business and the loss of our ability to rely upon any of those vendors, or to obtain their products in the future would adversely affect our results of operations. Our technology solutions business is heavily dependent on our relationships with leading hardware and software vendors and on our status as an authorized service provider. Although we are currently authorized to service the products of many industry-leading hardware and software vendors, we may not be able to maintain our relationships, or attract new relationships, with the computer hardware and software vendors that may be necessary for our technology solutions business. Since we rely upon our vendor relationships as a marketing tool, any change in these relationships could adversely affect our results of operations while we seek to establish alternative relationships with other vendors. In general, our authorization agreements with vendors include termination provisions, some of which are immediate, and we cannot predict whether vendors will continue to authorize us as an approved service provider. In addition, we cannot predict whether those vendors will authorize us as an approved service provider for new products, which they may introduce. Any impairment of these vendor relationships, or the loss of authorization as an approved service provider, could adversely affect our ability to provide the products and services which our technology solutions business requires and harm our competitive position. In addition, significant product supply shortages have resulted from time to time because manufacturers have been unable to produce sufficient quantities of certain products to meet demand. We expect to experience difficulty from time to time in obtaining an adequate supply of products from our major vendors, which may result in delays in completing sales. 6 Table of Contents Our technology solutions business is dependent on a limited number of major clients and the loss of any of these major clients would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales of products and services in our technology solutions business has been and is expected to continue to be concentrated in a small number of clients. Two of our clients accounted for approximately 28% of our total revenues for 2006 in our technology solutions business. In the event that any of these major clients should cease to purchase products or services from us, or purchase significantly fewer products and services in the future, we could experience materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During September 2005, we received written notification from Philip Morris USA terminating the service desk portion of our outsourcing services and product sales contractual engagement, effective April 1, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2006, services revenues from the service desk portion of the engagement totaled approximately $700,000 compared to approximately $3.3 million in 2005. Multiyear extensions have been finalized with Philip Morris USA on the other contractual portions of the engagement that had an April 2006 termination date. Our technology solutions business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market. The demand for our technology products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer hardware and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the past, adverse economic conditions decreased demand for our products and negatively impacted our financial results. Future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain. If an uncertain information technology spending environment persists, it could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our contracts can be terminated by our clients on short notice and in many cases without penalty. We also generally do not have exclusive arrangements with our clients or a minimum revenue commitment from our clients, which creates uncertainty about the volume of services we will provide and the amount of revenues we will generate from these clients. Many of our clients could terminate their relationship with us or significantly reduce their demand for our services due to a variety of factors, including factors that are unpredictable and outside of our control. In addition, in many cases, we are not the exclusive provider of outsourcing services to our clients. The services we provide to a client could be reduced for a variety of reasons, including our client’s decision to move more customer management functions in-house, or to an affiliated outsourcing provider or one of our competitors, changing economic factors, internal financial challenges or political or public relations reasons. Any significant reduction in client demand for our services could negatively impact our business, results of operation and financial condition. Risks Related to the Company’s Recreational Products Business Our recreational products business is seasonal and is subject to fluctuations, based upon various economic and climatic conditions that could harm us. Sales of our recreational products are affected directly by the usage levels and purchases of recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs, and marine products. The purchase and, in particular, the usage of these types of vehicles, are affected by weather conditions. As a result, sales of our recreational products business are highly susceptible to unpredictable events, and ordinarily decline in the winter months resulting in losses during these periods of the year. Additionally, unusual weather conditions in a particular season, such as unusually cold weather in the spring or summer months, can cause period-to-period fluctuations in our sales of recreational products. The usage and purchases of recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs, and marine products are also affected by consumers’ level of discretionary income and their confidence about economic conditions and changes in interest rates and in the availability and cost of gasoline. As a result, sales of our recreational products can fluctuate based upon unpredictable circumstances that are outside of our control. 7 Table of Contents Our recreational products business relies heavily upon vendors with which we have no long-term contracts. We do not have long term supply contracts with our recreational products suppliers, which may adversely affect the terms on which we purchase products for resale or result in our inability to purchase products from one or more of such vendors in the future. These vendors may choose to distribute their products directly to aftermarket dealers or establish exclusive supply relationships with other distributors. Additionally, manufacturers of new recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs, and marine products may choose to incorporate optional equipment as standard equipment on their vehicles at the time of manufacture that are similar to products available for sale to dealers by distributors such as us. In addition to decreased sales, we would encounter increased competition in our markets, or may be unable to offer certain products to our customers, upon any such changes in our relationships with our recreational products vendors. Risks Related to the Company’s SkyTel Business We may not be able to successfully integrate the business of SkyTel with ours and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We continue to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the SkyTel business with ours, as well as the business practices, operations and support functions. The challenges we are facing and/or may face in the future in connection with these integration efforts include the following: • developing and deploying next generation wireless technologies; • combining and simplifying diverse product and service offerings, subscriber plans and sales and marketing approaches; • preserving subscriber, supplier and other important relationships; • consolidating and integrating duplicative facilities and operations, including back-office systems; and • addressing differences in business cultures, preserving employee morale and retaining key employees, while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service and meeting our operational and financial goals. The process of integrating SkyTel’s operations with ours has caused, and may in the future cause, interruptions of, or loss of momentum in, our business and financial performance. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the two companies’ operations has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may also incur additional and unforeseen expenses in connection with the integration efforts. There can be no assurance that the synergies that we anticipate from the acquisition will be realized fully or within our expected timeframe. If we are not able to attract and retain customers for our SkyTel business unit, our financial performance could be impaired. Our ability to compete successfully for new customers for our SkyTel business unit and to retain SkyTel’s existing customers will depend on: • our marketing and sales and service delivery activities, and our credit and collection policies; • our ability to anticipate and develop new or enhanced products and services that are attractive to existing or potential customers; and • our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced by our competitors, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions, and other strategies that may be implemented by our competitors. 8 Table of Contents A key element in the economic success of communications carriers is the ability to retain customers as measured by the rate of subscriber churn. The core historical business of SkyTel has been the sale of pager and paging services, which has experienced significant downturn in the past years. SkyTel has historically experienced a high level of subscriber churn for its paging products. Our ability to retain SkyTel customers and reduce our rate of churn is affected by a number of factors including, with respect to our wireless business, the actual or perceived quality and coverage of our network and the attractiveness of our service offerings. Our efforts to reduce churn may not be successful. Furthermore, our efforts to offer new products through our SkyTel business unit and implement new technologies may not be successful. A high rate of churn could impair our ability to increase the revenues of, or cause a deterioration in the operating margins of, our wireless operations or our operations as a whole. Technological changes in the market for wireless services could negatively affect our subscriber churn, our ability to attract new subscribers and operating costs, which would adversely affect our revenues, growth and profitability. The wireless communications industry is experiencing significant technological change, including improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology and the deployment of unlicensed spectrum devices. This change causes uncertainty about future subscriber demand for our wireless services and the prices that we will be able to charge for these services. Rapid change in technology may lead to the development of wireless communications technologies or alternative services that are superior to our technologies or services or that consumers prefer over ours. If we are unable to meet future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to compete effectively and could lose customers to our competitors. If we are unable to meet our future capital needs relating to investment in our SkyTel network and other obligations, it may be necessary for us to curtail, delay or abandon our business growth plans. If we incur significant additional indebtedness to fund our plans, it could cause a decline in our credit rating and could increase our borrowing costs or limit our ability to raise additional capital. We likely will require additional capital to make the capital expenditures necessary to implement our business plans and support future growth of SkyTel’s wireless business, including the launch of additional new technologies, and satisfy our debt service requirements. In addition, we may incur additional debt in the future for a variety of reasons, including future acquisitions. We may not be able to arrange additional financing to fund our requirements on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our credit rating, financial performance, general economic conditions and prevailing market conditions. Some of these factors are beyond our control. Failure to obtain suitable financing when needed could, among other things, result in our inability to continue to expand our businesses and meet competitive challenges. If we incur significant additional indebtedness, or if we do not continue to generate sufficient cash from our operations, our credit rating could be adversely affected, which would likely increase our future borrowing costs and could affect our ability to access capital. Government regulation could adversely affect the prospects and results of operations for our SkyTel business unit; the FCC and state regulatory commissions may adopt new regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect the business prospects or results of operations of our SkyTel business unit. The FCC and other federal, state and local governmental authorities have jurisdiction over our SkyTel business and could adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect SkyTel’s business prospects or results of operations. The licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless telecommunications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, state and local regulatory agencies. In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to: • how radio spectrum is used by licensees; • the nature of the services that licensees may offer and how such services may be offered; and • resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. 9 Table of Contents Various states are considering regulations over terms and conditions of service, including such things as certain billing practices and consumer-related issues, that may not be preempted by federal law. If imposed, these regulations could increase the costs of our wireless operations. There is no guarantee that our FCC licenses will be renewed. Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given license area could result in revocation of the license for that license area. The FCC has initiated a number of proceedings to evaluate its rules and policies regarding spectrum licensing and usage. It is considering new “harmful interference” concepts that might permit unlicensed users to “share” licensed spectrum. These new uses could adversely impact our utilization of our licensed spectrum, and our operational costs. Risks Related to our Common Stock The exercise of the Company’s Convertible Promissory Note could create substantial dilution, or there may be other events which would have a dilutive effect on its common stock. In connection with the acquisition of SkyTel, the Company issued a $10 million convertible promissory note to Newcastle. The entire principal amount and any unpaid interest on the note may be converted into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to $3.81 per share. We have also entered into a registration rights agreement with Newcastle in which we granted Newcastle certain registration rights. If the convertible note is converted into common stock, such issuance will have a dilutive effect on our common stock. The Company cannot predict the effect any such dilution may have on the price of its common stock. In addition to the convertible note, the Company currently has options outstanding covering the purchase of approximately 2.0 million shares of common stock. If options to purchase the Company’s common stock are exercised, or other equity interests are granted under its stock option plan or under other plans adopted in the future, such equity interests will have a dilutive effect on its common stock. The Company cannot predict the effect any such dilution may have on the price of its common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 