Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this report, we are subject to the following risks, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations in the future. You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in our common stock. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes. Various statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including some of the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Growth Initiative Our growth initiatives may not achieve the intended benefits or may fail. During the last two years, we have implemented, and plan to continue to implement, several growth initiatives designed to increase revenue and profitability, particularly in our Bell Techlogix business. The execution of our growth plan entails significant risks and costs and we might not succeed in growing our business for many reasons. Until our growth initiatives are fully implemented, it will be difficult for us, as well as our investors, to predict or evaluate our business prospects and performance. Our business prospects should be considered in light of the uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies undergoing a business transition. If our growth initiatives fail to perform as we anticipate, we may implement restructuring efforts to improve the profitability of our businesses. Our growth initiatives to date and any future efforts have placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We might not be able to implement our growth initiatives if we lose key management or technical personnel, on whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise we rely. The success of our growth initiatives depends heavily upon the contributions of our key management and technical personnel, whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. Many of these individuals have been with us for several years and have developed specialized knowledge and skills relating to our technology and lines of business. Some executives have joined us in key management roles only recently. In January 2007, Kevin J. Thimjon was appointed to serve as our chief financial officer and was subsequently promoted to serve as our President in February 2008, and Clinton J. Coleman was appointed as our chief executive officer on an interim basis in July 2007. We might not be able to execute on our growth initiatives if we were to lose the services of any of our key personnel. If any of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor develops the necessary training and experience. 6 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Capital Structure Under the Amended Convertible Note, Newcastle has the ability to acquire in excess of a majority of our outstanding common stock, as well as the right to designate at least 50% of the members of our board of directors, which could give Newcastle control over the management of our business to the detriment of our other shareholders. At December 31, 2008, Newcastle beneficially owned approximately 87.7% of our outstanding common stock (including 2,846,241 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of their Amended Convertible Note). As a result, Newcastle could have the ability to exercise a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, as long as Newcastle beneficially owns at least 5% of our outstanding common stock, we granted Newcastle certain governance and related rights, including a pre-emptive right to acquire additional securities in the event we propose to issue any additional securities. We also agreed to exempt Newcastle from any stockholder rights plan that may be adopted in the future. Under the Amended Convertible Note, as long as Newcastle beneficially owns more than 50% of our outstanding common stock or greater than 50% of the outstanding principal on the Amended Convertible Note remains outstanding, Newcastle has the right to designate at least 50% of our directors, which could dictate the management of our business and affairs. Their designees currently include our Interim Chief Executive Officer. The interests of Newcastle may differ from other shareholders’ interests. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent, or deter a change in control and could deprive other shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our business. Furthermore, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling shareholders. Our ability to make payments on our debt will be contingent on our future operating performance, which will depend on a number of factors that are outside of our control. Our revolving credit facility with WFF is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. As of December 31, 2008 we had no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility, however, we do anticipate drawing advances from time to time on the facility to finance ongoing working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate needs. Our ability to make principal and interest payments against any advances under the revolving credit facility and on our other indebtedness is contingent on our future operating performance, which will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important negative consequences, including the following: • we may need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for future working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • a portion of our borrowings may be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; • we may be more vulnerable to a downturn in the industries in which we operate or a downturn in the economy in general; • we may be limited in our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • we may be limited in our ability to react to unforeseen increases in certain costs and obligations arising in our existing or previously owned businesses, including environmental, legal, lease and tax liabilities; • we may determine it to be necessary to dispose of certain assets or one or more of our businesses to reduce our debt; and • our ability to borrow additional funds may be limited. 7 Table of Contents We can provide no assurance that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to make scheduled debt payments or comply with the other provisions of our debt instruments, our various lenders may be permitted under certain circumstances to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness owed to them and exercise other remedies provided for in those instruments and under applicable law. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants pursuant to our indebtedness. These covenants may restrict our ability to finance our business and, if we do not comply with the covenants or otherwise default under them, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all amounts that could become due and the lenders could foreclose on substantially all of our assets. Our indebtedness contains covenants that, among other things, significantly restrict and, in some cases, effectively eliminate our ability and the ability of any of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • create or incur liens; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions to our shareholders; • purchase or redeem share capital; • make investments; • sell assets; • issue or sell share capital of certain subsidiaries; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • issue or become liable on a guarantee; • voluntarily prepay, repurchase or redeem debt; • create or acquire new subsidiaries; and • effect a merger or consolidation of, or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, we must comply with certain financial covenants under our revolving credit facility with WFF and the Amended Convertible Note. In the event we fail to meet any of such covenants and are unable to cure such breach or otherwise renegotiate such covenants, our lenders would have significant rights to deny future access to liquidity and/or seize control of substantially all of our assets. The financial covenants with which we must comply include minimum EBITDA and maximum capital expenditures. The covenants contained in our indebtedness and any credit agreement governing future debt may significantly restrict our future operations. Furthermore, upon the occurrence of any event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such agreements, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If those lenders were to accelerate the payment of those amounts, we cannot assure you that our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries would be sufficient to repay those amounts in full. We are also subject to interest rate risk due to our indebtedness at variable interest rates, based on either a base rate or LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin. We cannot assure you that shifts in interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on us. Our common stock is not traded on a national securities exchange. On April 14, 2008, we filed a Form 25 with the SEC in order to voluntarily delist our common stock from the American Stock Exchange. On April 24, 2008, our common stock ceased trading on the American Stock Exchange. Our common stock is now quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbol “BLLI”. Securities quoted on the Pink Sheets generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, not only in the number of shares that can be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, reduction in 8 Table of Contents securities analyst and news media coverage, and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock, our common stock is more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. Our ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future, may also be materially and adversely affected by the fact that our securities are not traded on a national securities exchange. The fact that our common stock is not traded on a national securities exchange could also have other adverse effects on us in addition to the foregoing, including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in us by institutional investors, current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships. Risks Related to Our Operations We have a history of operating losses. We have incurred net losses in each of the past six fiscal years. As of December 31, 2008 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $35.8 million. If our future revenues in each of our business segments do not meet our expectations, or if operating expenses exceed what we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our previously owned businesses subject us to potential environmental liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental statutes, ordinances and regulations relating to disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances and wastes used or generated in connection with previously owned businesses. Such laws may impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of such hazardous substances. Although we establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities, which reserves we believe to be adequate, there may be potential undisclosed environmental liabilities or liability in excess of the amounts reserved. Compliance with these environmental laws could require us to incur substantial expenses. We may not be able to compete effectively with other companies in our business segments, which will cause our net sales and market share to decline and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are highly competitive and we face strong competition from competitors that are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We believe that our prices and delivery terms are competitive; however, our competitors may offer more aggressive pricing than we do. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competitive pricing pressures in our businesses, which could require us to reduce prices, with a corresponding adverse impact on our operating results. Additionally, as competition in the technology industry has intensified, certain of our key technology suppliers have heightened their direct marketing initiatives. These initiatives have resulted in some of our clients electing to purchase technology products directly from the manufacturer, rather than through us. While we expect these initiatives to continue, there could be a material adverse impact on our business if the shift of clients to purchase directly from manufacturers occurs more quickly than anticipated. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or other legislative changes could impact our business. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way 9 Table of Contents we conduct business. In addition, legislative changes and the perception these changes create can have a material adverse effect on our business. The cost of compliance or failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may adversely affect our business. As a public reporting company, we are subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act affects corporate governance, securities disclosure, compliance practices, internal audits, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting and accounting systems. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for example, requires a company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, any failure to establish and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential shareholders and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Exchange Act and prevent us from providing the required financial information in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to our Bell Techlogix Business We rely on a limited number of hardware and software vendors to supply us with products in our Bell Techlogix business, and the loss of our ability to rely upon any of those vendors or to obtain their products in the future would adversely affect our results of operations. Our Bell Techlogix business is heavily dependent on our relationships with leading hardware and software vendors and on our status as an authorized service provider. Although we are currently authorized to service the products of many industry-leading hardware and software vendors, we may not be able to maintain our relationships, or attract new relationships, with the computer hardware and software vendors that may be necessary for our Bell Techlogix business. Since we rely upon our vendor relationships as a marketing tool, any change in these relationships could adversely affect our results of operations while we seek to establish alternative relationships with other vendors. In general, our authorization agreements with vendors include termination provisions, some of which are immediate, and we cannot predict whether vendors will continue to authorize us as an approved service provider. In addition, we cannot predict whether those vendors will authorize us as an approved service provider for new products, which they may introduce. Any impairment of these vendor relationships, including if these vendors experience financial, operational or quality assurance difficulties, or the loss of authorization as an approved service provider, could adversely affect our ability to provide the products and services which our Bell Techlogix business requires and harm our competitive position. In addition, significant product supply shortages have resulted from time to time because manufacturers have been unable to produce sufficient quantities of certain products to meet demand. We expect to experience difficulty from time to time in obtaining an adequate supply of products from our major vendors, which may result in delays in completing sales. Our Bell Techlogix business has several large clients and the loss of one or more of these large clients may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Bell Techlogix has a significant concentration of its revenues in several clients. Two clients accounted for approximately 28% of our total revenues for 2008 in our Bell Techlogix business. In the event that any of these major clients should cease to purchase products or services from us, or purchase significantly fewer products and services in the future, we could experience materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, due to the current weakened economic conditions, the risk of failure of one of our significant clients is increased, which failure could also have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our Bell Techlogix business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market, including the recent financial crisis and current economic conditions. The demand for our technology products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related technology hardware and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this current economic climate, current or prospective customers are reviewing the allocation of their capital spending budgets to information technology, which has resulted, and may continue to result, in our current or prospective customers delaying and/or reducing their capital spending related to information technology. Some of the factors that could influence the levels of spending by our current or prospective customers include availability of credit, labor and healthcare costs, consumer confidence and other factors affecting spending behavior. Future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain. If an uncertain information technology spending environment persists, it could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our contracts can be terminated by our clients on short notice and in many cases without penalty. We also generally do not have exclusive arrangements with our clients or a minimum revenue commitment from our clients, which creates uncertainty about the volume of services we will provide and the amount of revenues we will generate from these clients. Many of our clients could terminate their relationship with us or significantly reduce their demand for our services due to a variety of factors, including factors that are unpredictable and outside of our control. In addition, in many cases, we are not the exclusive provider of outsourcing services to our clients. The services we provide to a client could be reduced for a variety of reasons, including our client’s decision to move more customer management functions in-house, or to an affiliated outsourcing provider or one of our competitors, changing economic factors, internal financial challenges or political or public relations reasons. Any significant reduction in client demand for our services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Recreational Products Business The recent financial crisis and current economic conditions may adversely affect consumer spending and the financial condition of our dealers and may significantly harm our Recreational Products business. The usage and purchases of recreational vehicles, marine products, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs depend to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending and consumer debt and consumers’ confidence about economic conditions, changes in interest rates and in the availability and cost of gasoline. These recreational products are generally considered discretionary items. Continued adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced consumer demand for discretionary items. Any decrease in consumer demand could reduce our total sales volume, limit the prices we can charge for our products and increase our inventory levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we sell our recreational products to dealerships, retail stores and independent repair facilities in the upper Midwestern United States. Due to the current weakened economic conditions, the financial strength of the recreational products dealership base has declined and some dealers have gone out of business. Continued adverse economic conditions could increase the risk of failure of other dealers and retail stores that we supply, which failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our recreational products business is seasonal and is subject to fluctuations based upon climatic conditions. Sales of our recreational products are affected directly by the usage levels and purchases of recreational vehicles, marine products, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs. The purchase and, in particular, the usage of these types of vehicles, are affected by weather conditions. As a result, sales of our recreational products business are 11 Table of Contents highly susceptible to unpredictable events, and ordinarily decline in the winter months resulting in losses during these periods of the year. Additionally, unusual weather conditions in a particular season, such as unusually cold weather in the spring or summer months, can cause period-to-period fluctuations in our sales of recreational products. As a result, sales of our recreational products can fluctuate based upon unpredictable circumstances that are outside of our control. Our recreational products business relies heavily upon vendors with which we have no long-term contracts. We do not have long term supply contracts with our recreational products suppliers, which may adversely affect the terms on which we purchase products for resale or result in our inability to purchase products from one or more of such vendors in the future. These vendors may choose to distribute their products directly to aftermarket dealers or establish exclusive supply relationships with other distributors. Additionally, manufacturers of new recreational vehicles, marine products, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs may choose to incorporate optional equipment as standard equipment on their vehicles at the time of manufacture that are similar to products available for sale to dealers by distributors such as us. In addition to decreased sales, we would encounter increased competition in our markets, or may be unable to offer certain products to our customers, upon any such changes in our relationships with our recreational products vendors. Risks Related to SkyTel It is possible that we may not receive all of the cash provided for in the Velocita Purchase Agreement and accordingly, we may have less cash to fund our remaining operations. Pursuant to the Velocita Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Velocita in certain circumstances, including if we breach our representations, warranties or covenants in the Velocita Purchase Agreement and if Velocita incurs any damages as a result of liabilities that we agreed to retain. At the closing of the transaction with Velocita, Velocita issued to us an unsecured promissory note with a principal amount of $1.5 million and a maturity date of June 13, 2009 (the “Unsecured Note”). Subsequent to the closing, Velocita issued to us an additional unsecured promissory note with a principal amount of $1.5 million as a result of a post-closing working capital adjustment, payable in installments through June 13, 2009. In certain circumstances, Velocita may be entitled to withhold from the amounts due and payable under the Unsecured Note to the extent we have not otherwise performed under our indemnification obligations under the Velocita Purchase Agreement. In the event that Velocita becomes entitled to any such indemnification under the Velocita Purchase Agreement and exercises its rights to offset such losses against the Unsecured Note, the amount of cash we have available in the future will be reduced. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will receive these funds. Under the Velocita Purchase Agreement we will continue to be exposed to contingent liabilities relating to the SkyTel Business and the transaction, which could adversely affect our financial condition. In the Velocita Purchase Agreement, we made customary representations and warranties to Velocita and agreed to indemnify Velocita for any losses from breaches of our representations, warranties or covenants that occur within certain periods after the closing, subject to certain maximum amounts. In addition, we retained all liabilities relating to the SkyTel Business that were not expressly assumed by Velocita, and must indemnify Velocita for any claims or damages arising from such retained liabilities. If we incur any such indemnification obligations, it could adversely impact our cash resources and our ability to operate and grow our other businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 12 Table of Contents 