Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not serious may also impair our business and its financial condition. Our operating results fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenues and profitability and unexpected changes may cause us to adjust our operations. Large portions of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development and manufacturing costs. Thus, small declines in revenues could seriously negatively affect our operating results in any given quarter. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. For example, from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006 and from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009, net income in one year shifted to net loss in the next year. Some of the factors that may affect our quarterly and annual results are: • changes in business and economic conditions, including a downturn in demand or decrease in the rate of growth in demand, whether in the global economy, a regional economy or the semiconductor industry; • changes in consumer and business confidence caused by changes in market conditions, potentially including changes in the credit market, or changes in currency exchange rates, expectations for inflation or energy prices; • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by customers; • fluctuations in timing and amount of customer requests for product shipments; • changes in the mix of products that our customers purchase; • changes in the level of customers’ component inventory; • loss of key customers; • the availability of production capacity, whether internally or from external suppliers; 12 Table of Contents • the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; • competitive pressures on selling prices; • strategic actions taken by our competitors; • market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers; • fluctuations in our manufacturing yields and significant yield losses; • difficulties in forecasting demand for our products and the planning and managing of inventory levels; • the availability of raw materials, supplies and manufacturing services from third parties; • the amount and timing of investments in research and development; • damage awards or injunctions as the result of litigation; • changes in our product distribution channels and the timeliness of receipt of distributor resale information; • the impact of vacation schedules and holidays, largely during the second and third fiscal quarters of our fiscal year; and • the amount and timing of costs associated with product returns. As a result of these factors, many of which are difficult to control or predict, as well as the other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we may experience materially adverse fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. If product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. In addition, factory planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate depreciation. These changes in demand for our products and in our customers’ product needs could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. In addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record underutilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. We may not be able to increase production capacity to meet the present and future demand for our products. The semiconductor industry has been characterized by periodic limitations on production capacity. Currently, we are experiencing constraints on our ability to manufacture power semiconductors that result in longer lead times for product delivery than desired by many of our customers. If we are unable to increase our production capacity to meet current or possible future demand, some of our customers may seek other sources of supply or our future growth may be limited. Our backlog may not result in future revenues. Customer orders typically can be cancelled or rescheduled without penalty to the customer. Further, in periods of increasing demand, particularly when production is allocated or delivery delayed, customers of semiconductor companies have on occasion placed orders without expectation of accepting delivery to increase their share of allocated product or in an effort to improve the timeliness of delivery. While we are attuned to the potential for such behavior and attempt to identify such orders, we could accept orders of this nature and subsequently experience order cancellation unexpectedly. Our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual revenues for any succeeding period. A reduction of backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future revenues, could harm our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the mix of products sold may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in the mix and types of products sold may have a substantial impact on our revenues and gross profit margins. In addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development costs and higher start-up costs. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover our fixed costs and investments that are associated with a particular product, and, as a result, can negatively impact our financial results. Our international operations expose us to material risks. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, our net revenues by region were approximately 28.1% in the United States, approximately 34.9% in Europe and the Middle East, approximately 33.0% in Asia Pacific and approximately 4.0% in Canada and the rest of the world. We expect revenues from foreign markets to continue to represent a majority of total net revenues. We maintain significant business operations in Germany, the United Kingdom and the Philippines and work with subcontractors, suppliers and manufacturers in South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and elsewhere in Europe and Asia Pacific. Some of the risks inherent in doing business internationally are: • foreign currency fluctuations, particularly in the Euro and the British pound; • longer payment cycles; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • changes in the laws, regulations or policies of the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products; • trade restrictions; • cultural and language differences; • employment regulations; • limited infrastructure in emerging markets; • transportation delays; • seasonal reduction in business activities; • work stoppages; • labor and union disputes; • electrical outages; • terrorist attack or war; and • economic or political instability. Our sales of products manufactured in our Lampertheim, Germany facility and our costs at that facility are primarily denominated in Euros, and sales of products manufactured in our Chippenham, U.K. facility and our costs at that facility are primarily denominated in British pounds. Fluctuations in the value of the Euro and the British pound against the U.S. dollar could have a significant adverse impact on our balance sheet and results of operations. We generally do not enter into foreign currency hedging transactions to control or minimize these risks. Reductions in the value of the Euro or British pound would reduce our revenues recognized in U.S. dollars, all other things being equal. Increases in the value of the Euro or the British pound could cause losses associated with changes in exchange rates for foreign currency transactions. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales or profitability in that country. If we expand our international operations or change our pricing practices to denominate prices in other foreign currencies, we could be exposed to even greater risks of currency fluctuations. Our financial performance is dependent on economic stability and credit availability in international markets. Actions by governments to address deficits or sovereign debt issues could adversely affect gross domestic product 14 Table of Contents or currency exchange rates in countries where we operate, which in turn could adversely affect our financial results. If our customers or suppliers are unable to obtain the credit necessary to fund their operations, we could experience increased bad debts, reduced product orders and interruptions in supplier deliveries leading to delays or stoppages in our production. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws regarding the manufacture and sale of our products in the U.S. Therefore, the risk of piracy of our technology and products may be greater when we manufacture or sell our products in these foreign countries. The semiconductor industry is cyclical, and an industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. Business conditions in the semiconductor industry may rapidly change from periods of strong demand and insufficient production to periods of weakened demand and overcapacity. The industry in general is characterized by: • changes in product mix in response to changes in demand; • alternating periods of overcapacity and production shortages, including shortages of raw materials supplies and manufacturing services; • cyclical demand for semiconductors; • significant price erosion; • variations in manufacturing costs and yields; • rapid technological change and the introduction of new products; and • significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. These factors could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. Our dependence on subcontractors to assemble and test our products subjects us to a number of risks, including an inadequate supply of products and higher materials costs. We depend on subcontractors for the assembly and testing of our products. The substantial majority of our products are assembled by subcontractors located outside of the United States. Assembly subcontractors generally work on narrow margins and have limited capital. We have experienced assembly subcontractors who have ceased or reduced production because of financial problems. We engage assembly subcontractors who operate while in insolvency proceedings or whose financial stability is uncertain. The unexpected cessation of production or reduction in production by one or more of our assembly subcontractors could adversely affect our production, our customer relations, our revenues and our financial condition. Our reliance on these subcontractors also involves the following significant risks: • reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; • the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors; • limited or no warranties by subcontractors or other vendors on products supplied to us; • potential increases in prices due to capacity shortages and other factors; • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; and • economic or political instability in foreign countries. These risks may lead to delayed product delivery or increased costs, which would harm our profitability and customer relationships. 15 Table of Contents In addition, we use a limited number of subcontractors to assemble a significant portion of our products. If one or more of these subcontractors experience financial, operational, production or quality assurance difficulties, we could experience a reduction or interruption in supply. Although we believe alternative subcontractors are available, our operating results could temporarily suffer until we engage one or more of those alternative subcontractors. Moreover, in engaging alternative subcontractors in exigent circumstances, our production costs could increase markedly. Semiconductors for inclusion in consumer products have short product life cycles. We believe that consumer products are subject to shorter product life cycles, because of technological change, consumer preferences, trendiness and other factors, than other types of products sold by our customers. Shorter product life cycles result in more frequent design competitions for the inclusion of semiconductors in next generation consumer products, which may not result in design wins for us. Shorter product life cycles may lead to more frequent circumstances where sales of existing products are reduced or ended. We may not be successful in our acquisitions. We have in the past made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of other companies and technologies. These acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • diversion of management’s attention during the acquisition process; • disruption of our ongoing business; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • unanticipated expenses and potential delays related to integration of an acquired business; • the risk that we will be unable to develop or exploit acquired technologies; • failure to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired company with our own; • the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; • the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; • the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; • difficulties in expanding our information technology systems or integrating disparate information technology systems to accommodate the acquired businesses; • the challenges inherent in managing an increased number of employees and facilities and the need to implement appropriate policies, benefits and compliance programs; • customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired company’s products or personnel; • adverse effects on our relationships with suppliers; • the reduction in financial stability associated with the incurrence of debt or the use of a substantial portion of our available cash; • the costs associated with acquisitions, including in-process R&D charges and amortization expense related to intangible assets, and the integration of acquired operations; and • assumption of known or unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully acquire other businesses or product lines or integrate them into our operations without substantial expense, delay in implementation or other operational or financial problems. 16 Table of Contents As a result of an acquisition, our financial results may differ from the investment community’s expectations in a given quarter. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or stock price could be negatively impacted. We depend on external foundries to manufacture many of our products. Of our net revenues for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, 40.7% came from wafers manufactured for us by external foundries. Our dependence on external foundries may grow. We currently have arrangements with a number of wafer foundries, four of which produce the wafers for power semiconductors that we purchase from external foundries. Samsung Electronics’ facility in Kiheung, South Korea is our principal external foundry. Our relationships with our external foundries do not guarantee prices, delivery or lead times or wafer or product quantities sufficient to satisfy current or expected demand. These foundries manufacture our products on a purchase order basis. We provide these foundries with rolling forecasts of our production requirements. However, the ability of each foundry to provide wafers to us is limited by the foundry’s available capacity. At any given time, these foundries could choose to prioritize capacity for their own use or other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. If growth in demand for our products occurs, these foundries may be unable or unwilling to allocate additional capacity to our needs, thereby limiting our revenue growth. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that these foundries will allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will continue to do business with these or other foundries on terms as favorable as our current terms. If we are not able to obtain foundry capacity as required, our relationships with our customers could be harmed, we could be unable to fulfill contractual requirements and our revenues could be reduced or our growth limited. Moreover, even if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be required, either contractually or as a practical business matter, to utilize all of that capacity or incur penalties or an adverse effect to the business relationship. The costs related to maintaining foundry capacity could be expensive and could harm our operating results. Other risks associated with our reliance on external foundries include: • the lack of control over delivery schedules; • the unavailability of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies; • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. Our requirements typically represent a small portion of the total production of the external foundries that manufacture our wafers and products. One or more of these external foundries may not continue to produce wafers for us or continue to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of our products is based. These circumstances could harm our ability to deliver our products or increase our costs. Our success depends on our ability to manufacture our products efficiently. We manufacture our products in facilities that are owned and operated by us, as well as in external wafer foundries and subcontract assembly facilities. The fabrication of semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, and a substantial percentage of wafers could be rejected or numerous dies on each wafer could be nonfunctional as a result of, among other factors: • contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer; • manufacturing equipment failure; or • wafer breakage. For these and other reasons, we could experience a decrease in manufacturing yields. Additionally, if we increase our manufacturing output, the additional demands placed on existing equipment and personnel or the 17 Table of Contents addition of new equipment or personnel may lead to a decrease in manufacturing yields. As a result, we may not be able to cost-effectively expand our production capacity in a timely manner. Our gross margin is dependent on a number of factors, including our level of capacity utilization. Semiconductor manufacturing requires significant capital investment, leading to high fixed costs, including depreciation expense. We are limited in our ability to reduce fixed costs quickly in response to any shortfall in revenues. If we are unable to utilize our manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities at a high level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will not be fully absorbed, resulting in lower gross margins. Increased competition and other factors may lead to price erosion, lower revenues and lower gross margins for us in the future. Increasing raw material prices could impact our profitability. Our products use large amounts of silicon, metals and other materials. In recent periods, we have experienced price increases for many of these items. If we are unable to pass price increases for raw materials onto our customers, our gross margins and profitability could be adversely affected. We order materials and commence production in advance of anticipated customer demand. Therefore, revenue shortfalls may also result in inventory write-downs. We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on our own expectations for customer demand. Actual customer demand, however, can be highly unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly. In response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials, we order materials and production in advance of customer demand. This advance ordering and production may result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize. For example, additional inventory write downs occurred in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Our debt agreements contain certain restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreements governing our debt contain, and any other future debt agreement we enter into may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate our business, including, in each case subject to certain exceptions, restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • grant liens; • consolidate, merge or sell our assets, unless specified conditions are met; • acquire other business organizations; • make investments; • redeem or repurchase our stock; and • change the nature of our business. In addition, our debt agreements contain financial covenants and additional affirmative and negative covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants for any reason and we have debt outstanding at the time of such failure, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under the credit facilities provided by the debt agreements would not be allowed. If our cash is utilized to repay any outstanding debt, depending on the amount of debt outstanding, we could experience an immediate and significant reduction in working capital available to operate our business. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, such as strategic acquisitions or joint ventures. 18 Table of Contents Changes in our decisions about restructuring could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations about restructuring actions include: • timing and execution of a plan that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; • changes in assumptions related to severance costs; • changes in employment levels and turnover rates; and • changes in product demand and the business environment, including changes in global economic conditions. Our royalties are uncertain and unpredictable in amount. We are unable to discern a pattern in or otherwise predict the amount of any royalty payments that we may receive. Consequently, we are unable to plan on the receipt of royalties and our results of operations may be adversely affected by a reduction in the amount of royalties received. Our markets are subject to technological change and our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products. The markets for our products are characterized by: • changing technologies; • changing customer needs; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • increased integration with other functions; and • product obsolescence. To develop new products for our target markets, we must develop, gain access to and use leading technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner and continue to expand our technical and design expertise. Failure to do so could cause us to lose our competitive position and seriously impact our future revenues. Products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies in our product markets would have a material adverse effect on our competitive position within the industry. Our revenues are dependent upon our products being designed into our customers’ products. Many of our products are incorporated into customers’ products or systems at the design stage. The value of any design win largely depends upon the customer’s decision to manufacture the designed product in production quantities, the commercial success of the customer’s product and the extent to which the design of the customer’s electronic system also accommodates incorporation of components manufactured by our competitors. In addition, our customers could subsequently redesign their products or systems so that they no longer require our products. The development of the next generation of products by our customers generally results in new design competitions for semiconductors, which may not result in design wins for us, potentially leading to reduced revenues and profitability. We may not achieve design wins or our design wins may not result in future revenues. We could be harmed by intellectual property litigation. As a general matter, the semiconductor industry is characterized by substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We have been sued for purported patent infringement and have been accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We also have certain indemnification obligations to customers and suppliers with respect to the infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our products. 19 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs defending ourselves and our customers and suppliers from any such claim. Infringement claims or claims for indemnification, whether or not proven to be true, may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our core business operations and could otherwise harm our business. For example, in June 2000, we were sued for patent infringement by International Rectifier Corporation. The case was ultimately resolved in our favor, but not until October 2008. In the interim, the U.S. District Court entered multimillion dollar judgments against us on two different occasions, each of which was subsequently vacated. In the event of an adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the development, manufacturing, use and sale of infringing products, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain a license from the third party claiming infringement with royalty payment obligations upon us. An adverse outcome in an infringement action could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. Our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our proprietary information will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or that our competitors will not independently develop technology that is substantially similar or superior to our technology. More specifically, we cannot assure that our pending patent applications or any future applications will be approved, or that any issued patents will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. Nor can we assure that, if challenged, our patents will be found to be valid or enforceable, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. We may also become subject to or initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources and could harm our financial results. Also, others may independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate our products or processes or design their products around any patents that may be issued to us. Because our products typically have lengthy sales cycles, we may experience substantial delays between incurring expenses related to research and development and the generation of revenues. The time from initiation of design to volume production of new semiconductors often takes 18 months or longer. We first work with customers to achieve a design win, which may take nine months or longer. Our customers then complete the design, testing and evaluation process and begin to ramp up production, a period that may last an additional nine months or longer. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our research and development efforts and our realization of revenues, if any, from volume purchasing of our products by our customers. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive. Many of our target markets are intensely competitive. Our ability to compete successfully in our target markets depends on the following factors: • proper new product definition; • product quality, reliability and performance; • product features; • price; • timely delivery of products; • technical support and service; • design and introduction of new products; 20 Table of Contents • market acceptance of our products and those of our customers; and • breadth of product line. In addition, our competitors or customers may offer new products based on new technologies, industry standards or end-user or customer requirements, including products that have the potential to replace our products or provide lower cost or higher performance alternatives to our products. The introduction of new products by our competitors or customers could render our existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. Our primary power semiconductor competitors include Fairchild Semiconductor, Fuji, Hitachi, Infineon, International Rectifier, Microsemi, Mitsubishi, On Semiconductor, Powerex, Renesas Technology, Semikron International, STMicroelectronics, Toshiba and Vishay Intertechnology. Our IC products compete principally with those of Atmel, Cypress Semiconductor, Freescale Semiconductor, Microchip, NEC, Renesas Technology, Silicon Labs and Supertex. Our RF power semiconductor competitors include Microsemi and RF Micro Devices. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and management resources than we have. Some of these competitors may be able to sell their products at prices below which it would be profitable for us to sell our products or benefit from established customer relationships that provide them with a competitive advantage. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased price competition. We rely on our distributors and sales representatives to sell many of our products. Most of our products are sold to distributors or through sales representatives. Our distributors and sales representatives could reduce or discontinue sales of our products. They may not devote the resources necessary to sell our products in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect. In addition, we depend upon the continued viability and financial resources of these distributors and sales representatives, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital. These distributors and sales representatives, in turn, depend substantially on general economic conditions and conditions within the semiconductor industry. We believe that our success will continue to depend upon these distributors and sales representatives. Foreign distributors are typically granted longer payment terms, resulting in higher accounts receivable balances for a given level of sales than domestic distributors. Our risk of loss from the financial insolvency of distributors is, therefore, disproportionally weighted to foreign distributors. If any significant distributor or sales representative experiences financial difficulties, or otherwise becomes unable or unwilling to promote and sell our products, our business could be harmed. For example, All American Semiconductor, Inc., one of our former distributors, filed for bankruptcy in April 2007. Our future success depends on the continued service of management and key engineering personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and finance personnel, and, to a significant extent, upon the efforts and abilities of Nathan Zommer, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, and other members of senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior management or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. There is intense competition for qualified employees in the semiconductor industry, particularly for highly skilled design, applications and test engineers. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to replace engineers or other qualified individuals who could leave us at any time in the future. If we grow, we expect increased demands on our resources, and growth would likely require the addition of new management and engineering staff as well as the development of additional expertise by existing management employees. If we lose the services of or fail to recruit key engineers or other technical and management personnel, our business could be harmed. 21 Table of Contents Acquisitions and expansion place a significant strain on our resources, including our information systems and our employee base. Presently, because of our acquisitions, we are operating a number of different information systems that are not integrated. In part because of this, we use spreadsheets, which are prepared by individuals rather than automated systems, in our accounting. In our accounting, we perform many manual reconciliations and other manual steps, which result in a high risk of errors. Manual steps also increase the possibility of control deficiencies and material weaknesses. We are also transferring some accounting functions to our recently acquired Philippine subsidiary from other locations. These transfers involve changing accounting systems and implementing different software from that previously used. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our ability to manage or grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement our goals and comply with regulations, including those adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, requires an effective planning and management system and process. We will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. In improving or consolidating our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, we would expect to periodically implement new or different software and other systems that will affect our internal operations regionally or globally. The conversion process from one system to another is complex and could require, among other things, that data from the existing system be made compatible with the upgraded or different system. In connection with any of the foregoing, we could experience errors, delays and other inefficiencies, which could adversely affect our business. Any error, delay, disruption, transition or conversion, including with respect to any new or different systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. In addition, as we add or change functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. Such problems could adversely impact our ability to do the following in a timely manner: provide quotes; take customer orders; ship products; provide services and support to our customers; bill and track our customers; fulfill contractual obligations; and otherwise run our business. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources, adversely affect our ability to manage our business or adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or stock price. Any future growth would also require us to successfully hire, train, motivate and manage new employees. In addition, continued growth and the evolution of our business plan may require significant additional management, technical and administrative resources. We may not be able to effectively manage the growth or the evolution of our current business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our substrates, most of whom we do not have long term agreements with. We purchase the bulk of our silicon substrates from a limited number of vendors, most of whom we do not have long term supply agreements with. Any of these suppliers could reduce or terminate our supply of silicon substrates at any time. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several risks, including potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of silicon substrates and reduced control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and quality of the silicon substrates. We cannot assure that problems will not occur in the future with suppliers. Costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in our manufacturing processes, include the costs of: • writing off the value of inventory of defective products; • disposing of defective products; 22 Table of Contents • recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers; • providing product replacements for, or modifications to, defective products; and/or • defending against litigation related to defective products. These costs could be substantial and may, therefore, increase our expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. These factors could harm our financial results and the prospects for our business. We face the risk of financial exposure to product liability claims alleging that the use of products that incorporate our semiconductors resulted in adverse effects. Approximately 9.1% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 were derived from sales of products used in medical devices, such as defibrillators. Product liability risks may exist even for those medical devices that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. We cannot be sure that the insurance that we maintain against product liability will be adequate to cover our losses. Any defects in our semiconductors used in these devices, or in any other product, could result in significant product liability costs to us. If our goodwill or long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or long-lived assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. In fiscal 2011, we recorded an impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets of $702,000, based on our estimates of the future operating results and discounted cash flows of the reporting unit. We estimate tax liabilities, the final determination of which is subject to review by domestic and international taxation authorities. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. We are also subject to review and audit by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires significant judgment and estimation. The provision for income taxes can be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to changes in tax laws, regulations and accounting principles, including accounting for uncertain tax positions, or interpretation of those changes. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the authoritative guidance issued by FASB in connection with accounting for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, goodwill or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates” in Part I, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We are exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environment. We are subject to various risks related to: (1) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate; (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and regulations. If we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, approximately 9.1% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 were derived from the sale of products included in medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and internationally, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. The FDA and certain foreign regulatory authorities impose numerous requirements for medical device manufacturers to meet, including adherence to Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, regulations and similar regulations in other countries, which include testing, control and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with GMP and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections by federal and state agencies, including the FDA, and by comparable agencies in other countries. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could prevent our products from being included in approved medical devices or result in damages or other compensation payable to medical device manufacturers. Our business could also be harmed by delays in receiving or the failure to receive required approvals or clearances, the loss of obtained approvals or clearances or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. We make investments in companies to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include investments in equity securities of public companies and investments in non-marketable equity securities of private companies, which range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies whose products or technologies may directly support a product or initiative. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business success factors. The private companies in which we invest may fail for operational reasons or because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings or take advantage of liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for the equity securities of the public and private companies in which we invest, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. Furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment even at a loss. Our investments in non-marketable equity securities of private companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could negatively affect our results of operations. Our ability to access capital markets could be limited. From time to time, we may need to access the capital markets to obtain long term financing. Although we believe that we can continue to access the capital markets on acceptable terms and conditions, our flexibility with regard to long term financing activity could be limited by our existing capital structure, our credit ratings and the health of the semiconductor industry. In addition, many of the factors that affect our ability to access the capital markets, such as the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the current state of the economy, are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have access to the capital markets on favorable terms. 24 Table of Contents Geopolitical instability, war, terrorist attacks and terrorist threats, and government responses thereto, may negatively affect all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price. Any such event may disrupt our operations or those of our customers or suppliers. Our markets currently include South Korea, Taiwan and Israel, which are currently experiencing political instability. Additionally, we have accounting operations in the Philippines, our principal external foundry is located in South Korea and assembly subcontractors are located in Indonesia, the Philippines and South Korea. Business interruptions may damage our facilities or those of our suppliers. Our operations and those of our suppliers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake and other natural disasters, as well as power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan and do not have backup generators. Our facilities in California are located near major earthquake faults and have experienced earthquakes in the past. For example, the March 2011 earthquake in Japan adversely affected the operations of some of our Japanese suppliers, which limited the availability of certain production inputs to us for a short period of time. If a natural disaster occurs, our ability to conduct our operations could be seriously impaired, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We cannot be sure that the insurance we maintain against general business interruptions will be adequate to cover all our losses. We may be affected by environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations in the United States, England and Germany related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing process. Any of those regulations could require us to acquire expensive equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with them. If we incur substantial additional expenses, product costs could significantly increase. Failure to comply with present or future environmental laws, rules and regulations could result in fines, suspension of production or cessation of operations. Nathan Zommer, Ph.D. owns a significant interest in our common stock. Nathan Zommer, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned, as of May 25, 2011, approximately 21.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, Dr. Zommer can exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of the board of directors. His holdings could result in a delay of, or serve as a deterrent to, any change in control of our company, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. The future market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly in the event of: • variations in our actual or expected quarterly operating results; • announcements or introductions of new products; • technological innovations by our competitors or development setbacks by us; • conditions in the communications and semiconductor markets; • the commencement or adverse outcome of litigation; • changes in analysts’ estimates of our performance or changes in analysts’ forecasts regarding our industry, competitors or customers; • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions or a failure to achieve the expected benefits of an acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial analysts; • terrorist attack or war; 25 Table of Contents • sales of our common stock by one or more members of management, including Nathan Zommer, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer; or • general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, including semiconductor companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies in our industry, and could harm the market price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control because the terms of any issued preferred stock could potentially prohibit our consummation of any merger, reorganization, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction, without the approval of the holders of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. Our stockholders must give substantial advance notice prior to the relevant meeting to nominate a candidate for director or present a proposal to our stockholders at a meeting. These notice requirements could inhibit a takeover by delaying stockholder action. The Delaware anti-takeover law restricts business combinations with some stockholders once the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our common stock. The Delaware statute makes it more difficult for us to be acquired without the consent of our board of directors and management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 