Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of future operations could be materially adversely affected. The information contained in the following risk factors concerning the Company’s financial results of operations is based on and assumes presentation in accordance with IFRS for the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient revenues from operations, it will require additional financing. This financing may not be available at all or, if available, may be on terms that dilute shareholders’ interests. The Company will require significant revenue from product sales, collaborative and licensing arrangements and strategic alliances to fund its ongoing operations. If the Company is unsuccessful in generating this revenue or this revenue is insufficient to fund proposed projects, then the Company will require additional financing. Additional financing may not be available to the Company on favorable terms or at all. If the Company has insufficient funds or is unable to raise additional funds, it may be required to delay, reduce or cease certain of its programs and may be unable to continue its operations at its current level, if at all. Future financings may result in the substantial dilution of shareholders’ interests and may result in future investors being granted rights superior to those of existing shareholders. For a discussion of the Company’s liquidity, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” If the Company fails to obtain adequate intellectual property rights for its products and product candidates, competitors may be able to take advantage of the Company’s research and development efforts. The Company may also be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties. The Company’s success will depend, in large part, on its ability to obtain and maintain patent or other proprietary protection for its technologies, products and processes. If the Company is not able to obtain patent protection for certain of its products or to secure patents that are sufficiently broad in their scope, competitors may be able to take advantage of the Company’s research and development efforts. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical or biotechnological inventions and the scope of claims made under such patents are still developing. There is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The patent position of a biotechnology company is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that competitors will not develop substantially equivalent techniques or otherwise gain access to the Company’s technologies. The Company may have to initiate litigation to enforce its patent and license rights. If the Company’s competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by it, the Company may have to participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention. An adverse outcome could subject the Company to significant liabilities to third parties and require it to cease using technology owned by, or to license disputed rights from, third parties. The Company’s success also depends on its ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties with respect to products that facilitate the Company’s ability to develop and exploit its own products. If infringement occurs, the Company may have to develop an alternative technology or reach an agreement for the license of the necessary rights from the third party. Should this be necessary, the Company cannot assure that it can obtain or develop those technologies or obtain those licenses, and as a result, may be unable to develop and market its product candidate. The cost to the Company of any litigation or proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in the Company’s favor, could be substantial. Some of the Company’s competitors may 8 Table of Contents be able to sustain the costs of litigation more effectively than the Company because of their substantially greater resources. Products in the Company’s development pipeline may fail to generate sufficient revenues to fund operations. The Company’s product launches have not generated sufficient revenues to cover all of the Company’s costs and may not do so in the future. In addition to the products launched, the Company has a variety of product candidates in various stages of development and will need to undertake substantial additional research and development and pre-clinical and clinical testing of the Company’s product candidates. These efforts may not result in the development of any further commercially successful products, in which case the Company may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to fund operations as currently budgeted, or may be required to scale back operations or specific projects. The Company may fail to successfully develop a product candidate for many reasons, including: • a product candidate fails in pre-clinical studies; • a potential product is not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials; • the Company fails to obtain regulatory approval for the product; • the Company fails to produce a product in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost; or • a product does not gain market acceptance. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Approximately 87% of the Company’s revenues for the year ended March 31, 2006 were derived from customers located in the U.S. and these sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Since the majority of the Company’s expenses are denominated in British pounds sterling and Australian dollars, the results of operations and financial condition, as reported in pounds sterling, will be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. The Company enters into hedging agreements to protect against currency exchange risk. However, this policy may not in all cases be able to manage all the currency transaction risks, particularly given the volatility of exchange rates and the continued weakness of the U.S. dollar. The Company has a history of operating losses and may not be profitable on a sustainable basis. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had IFRS losses for the year of £9,488,000 and £1,781,000, respectively. The underlying losses resulted principally from costs associated with the manufacture of pharmaceutical products, and the research, development and clinical testing activities of product candidates. A return to profitability will depend on the Company’s ability to generate sufficient revenues from existing product sales, product candidates that are currently under development and to enter into new partnerships for the licensing of its product candidates, while maintaining existing partnerships. During the forthcoming years, the Company anticipates increasing its expenditures in relation to establishing a sales force, fulfilling its obligations to AstraZeneca with respect to its CytoFab® program, and other manufacturing based projects, and increasing levels of research and development expenditure on its other products. 9 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to maintain existing or enter into new collaborative arrangements, its ability to develop and market product candidates will suffer and it may be unable to sustain its business. One of the Company’s primary focuses is on the research and development of new pharmaceutical products, and, therefore, it will be dependent on its existing alliances and new alliances with third parties to provide development, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. The Company’s ability to obtain new agreements will depend, in part, on the success of its clinical trials. Collaborators and licensees have significant discretion over the resources they devote to these efforts. The Company’s success, therefore, will depend on whether these third parties perform their responsibilities and devote sufficient resources to collaborations with the Company. The Company cannot guarantee that: • it will be able to establish additional collaborative arrangements or license agreements; • any collaborative arrangement or agreement will be on favorable terms; • any existing or future collaborative arrangement or agreement will result in a successful product and/or generate sufficient revenue; or • the Company’s collaborative partners will satisfactorily perform their obligations under the collaborative arrangements. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company’s current or potential collaborators and licensees will not pursue alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others, including the Company’s competitors. If the livestock from which the Company obtains antisera or the snakes from which the Company obtains venom, develop diseases, the Company may be unable to meet its current or future production requirements. The Company currently supplies all of the antisera required for the production of its polyclonal antibody products from its own flocks of sheep in South Australia. The Company takes stringent precautions to minimize the risk of animal diseases, including scrapie, which could affect its sheep or the safety of its products. All of the sheep used by the Company to produce its antisera are located in Australia, which the office of the Australian Chief Veterinary Officer has acknowledged as being scrapie free. However, animal diseases could affect the Company’s flocks and therefore its ability to produce antisera. The Company currently sources three of the four venoms used in the production of its treatment for rattlesnake bites (CroFab®) from specimens in captive colonies maintained by third parties in Kentucky and Florida in the United States. The fourth venom is obtained from the Company’s own captive colony in Utah. The Company takes stringent precautions by quarantine, by testing and by veterinary clinical care to maintain captive specimens free of reptile diseases as certified by consulting veterinarians. However, reptile diseases could adversely affect captive specimens and the ability to obtain timely supplies of venom. In the future, the Company may contract with third parties for the supply of antisera. The Company will use its best efforts to obtain antisera from suppliers who certify that their livestock is disease free. However, animal diseases could affect the livestock of third party suppliers and therefore adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain antisera. If the Company is not able to obtain adequate quantities of raw materials from its existing suppliers or services from external contractors, the Company may not be able to access alternative sources of supply or services within a reasonable amount of time or at commercially reasonable rates. 10 Table of Contents The Company requires supplies of certain raw materials, such as crotalid snake venom, digoxin and TNFa, for use in the development and manufacture of its products and product candidates. Although the Company has no reason to believe that its suppliers will be unable to procure adequate supplies of such raw material on a timely basis, disruptions in supplies, including delays due to the inability of the Company’s suppliers, or the Company, to procure raw materials would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company also relies on third party contractors to provide critical services such as the filling and freeze-drying of product into vials. Problems at contractors’ facilities in the past have caused delays and disruptions in supplies of the Company’s marketed products and, despite efforts to dual supply critical suppliers and service providers, there can be no assurance the Company will not experience similar delays in the future. Regulatory requirements for pharmaceutical products tend to make the substitution of suppliers and contractors costly and time-consuming. The unavailability of adequate commercial quantities, the inability to develop alternative sources, a reduction or interruption in supply of contracted services, or a significant increase in the price of materials or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to manufacture and market its products or to fill orders from its distributors, which in turn would have an adverse impact on the Company’s cash flows. If the Company is unable to comply with stringent regulatory quality controls, there may be delays in the production and manufacture of the Company’s products. Production of the Company’s products involves a highly complex manufacturing process. The Company, in conjunction with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and other regulatory authorities, such as the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (“EMEA”) or the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (“MHRA”), applies very stringent quality controls to this manufacturing process. If any step in the production and manufacturing process fails the stringent quality control tests, there could be delays in sales of the Company’s products. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Regulation by government agencies imposes significant costs and restrictions on the Company’s business activities. The production and sale of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated. The Company’s ability and the ability of its partners to secure regulatory approval for the Company’s products and to continue to satisfy regulatory requirements will determine its future success. The Company may not receive required regulatory approvals for its products or receive approvals in a timely manner. In particular, the FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries, including the EMEA and the MHRA in the U.K., must approve human immunotherapeutic and preventive products before they are marketed. This approval process can involve lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing, sampling activities and other costly and time-consuming procedures. While the time required to obtain approval varies, it can take several years. Delays in obtaining or the failure to obtain regulatory approvals or the restriction, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals could adversely affect the marketing of products and the Company’s ability to receive product revenues or royalties. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to obtain the necessary approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing, process changes, and marketing of any products that it may develop. The Company is well advanced in its preparations towards submitting the licensing application for its Voraxaze ™ product to the FDA and has already filed a similar application to the EMEA. If either the FDA or EMEA does not accept the Company’s applications in their current forms, the Company could be required to revise and resubmit the applications or to conduct further clinical trials, which could significantly delay marketing approvals for the product and require substantial additional expense which the Company may not be able to finance easily, if at all. 11 Table of Contents The Company is also subject to ongoing regulatory review. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility or other violations of regulatory requirements may result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls and criminal prosecution. For further discussion of regulations and potential penalties, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Government Regulation.” Announcements, developments and/or regulatory changes in the biotechnology sector may cause the Company’s share price to fluctuate. The market price of the Company’s ordinary shares may be affected by announcements from or about other companies in the biotechnology sector. Factors that could cause the Company’s stock price to fluctuate in the future may include: • announcements by other biotechnology companies of clinical trial results and other product developments; • adverse developments in the protection of intellectual property or other legal matters; • announcements in the scientific and research community; • changes in treatment recommendations or guidelines by private health organizations or science foundations; • regulatory changes that affect the Company’s products; and • changes in third-party reimbursement policies or in medical practices. The Company’s competitors may have greater resources for developing product, and, as a result, may be able to develop products that are superior to, or less costly to manufacture than, the Company’s products or product candidates or launch competing products before it does. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with pharmaceutical companies in the United States, the United Kingdom, Europe and elsewhere for both its existing products and those currently under development. Many of these companies have research, development, marketing, financial and personnel resources greater than the Company’s. Competitors may develop and receive regulatory approval for a marketable product before the Company does. Competitors may also develop a product that is more effective or less costly to manufacture than the Company’s products or product candidates, rendering the Company’s products or product candidates obsolete. The Company anticipates that it will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter its markets and alternative drugs and technologies become available. Third-party reimbursement and health care cost containment initiatives may constrain the Company’s future revenues. The Company’s ability to market successfully any product it may develop will depend in part on the level of reimbursement that government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations provide for the cost of the Company’s products and related treatments. The Company may not be able to sell the Company’s products profitably if reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope. Increasingly, third-party payers, including governmental agencies, are attempting to contain health care costs in ways that are likely to impact the Company’s development of products, including: • challenging the prices charged for health care products; 12 Table of Contents • limiting both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic products; • denying or limiting coverage for products that are approved by the regulatory agencies but are considered experimental or investigational by third-party payors; and • refusing to provide coverage when an approved product is used in a way that has not received regulatory marketing approval. The Company faces product liability and other operational risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The testing, marketing and sale of the Company’s products involve significant product liability risks. The Company may be held liable for damages for product failures or adverse reactions resulting from the use of the Company’s products. Although the Company maintains product liability coverage, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all product liability claims. Furthermore, in the future, the Company may not be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms against product liability and other operational risks such as property damage and business interruption, and any insurance the Company does obtain may not provide adequate coverage against any asserted claims or other losses. 