Item 1A. Risk FactorsOil and natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial decrease in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial results.Our future financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production. Oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current world geopolitical conditions. Oil and natural gas prices have continued their volatility between year-end 2011 and year-end 2012, with NYMEX oil prices per Bbl decreasing 7%, and NYMEX natural gas prices per MMBtu increasing by 12%. Future decreases in commodity prices could require us to record full cost ceiling test write-downs. The amount of any future write-down is difficult to predict and will depend upon oil and natural gas prices, the incremental proved reserves that might be added during each period and additional capital spent.Our cash flow from operations is highly dependent on the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. This price volatility also affects the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Oil prices are likely to affect us more than natural gas prices because oil comprised approximately 93% of our 2012 production and 80% of our December 31, 2012 proved reserves, with oil being an even larger percentage of our current production and future potential reserves and projects due to our primary focus on tertiary operations.The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the supply of, and demand for, these commodities, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including:•the level of worldwide consumer demand for oil and natural gas;•the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas;•the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;•domestic governmental regulations and taxes;•the price and availability of alternative fuel sources;•storage levels of oil and natural gas;•weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico that can damage oil and natural gas facilities and delivery systems and disrupt operations, and winter conditions and forest fires in the Rocky Mountains that can delay or impede operations;•market uncertainty;•worldwide political events and conditions, including actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; and- 27 -Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc.•worldwide economic conditions.These factors and the volatility of the energy markets generally make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements. Also, prices for oil and prices for natural gas do not necessarily move in tandem. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. If the oil and natural gas industry experiences significant price declines, we may, among other things, be unable to meet our financial obligations or make planned expenditures.Over the past five years oil prices have fluctuated significantly, reaching record highs of approximately $145 per Bbl in July 2008, declining precipitously during the last half of 2008, and ending that year at a NYMEX price of $44.60 per Bbl. Oil prices then reversed course, generally increasing through the past several years, ending 2011 at a NYMEX price of $98.83 per Bbl and ending 2012 at a NYMEX price of $91.82 per Bbl. Due to the volatility of oil prices, oil prices could decline to a level that makes our tertiary projects uneconomical. If that were to happen, we may decide to suspend future expansion projects, and if prices were to drop below the cash break-even point for an extended period of time, we may decide to shut-in existing production, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may also be required to reduce our capital expenditures in the event of reduced commodity prices to reflect the reduced cash flow, which could reduce or eliminate our growth. We have a practice of hedging approximately 15 to 24 months (from the current quarter) of forecasted production to mitigate the risks associated with price fluctuations (see Note 9, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details regarding our commodity derivative contracts). As of February 21, 2013, we have oil commodity derivative contracts in place covering approximately 55,000 Bbls/d during 2013 and 50,000 Bbls/d during 2014. Since operating costs do not decrease as quickly as commodity prices, it is difficult to determine a precise break-even point for our tertiary projects. Based on prior history, we estimate our economic break-even point (before corporate overhead, and based on expenses on these projects at current oil prices) occurs at per barrel dollar costs in the $40-per-barrel range, depending on the specific field and area.The prices we receive for our crude oil often do not correlate with NYMEX prices. The prices we receive for our crude oil production can vary from NYMEX oil prices depending on, among other factors, the quality of the crude oil we sell, the location of our crude oil production and the related markets to which we sell, variations in prices paid based upon different indices used, and the pricing contracts and indices at which we sell production. Our NYMEX differentials on a field-by-field basis over the last few years have ranged from approximately $25 per Bbl above NYMEX to approximately $25 per Bbl below NYMEX. On a corporate-wide basis, our NYMEX differentials over the last few years have ranged from approximately $9 per Bbl above NYMEX oil prices to approximately $4 per Bbl below NYMEX oil prices. These variances have been due to various factors and are difficult to forecast or anticipate, but they have a direct impact on the net oil price we receive.Natural gas price volatility has followed a different path during the last few years, with current prices depressed as a result of weak demand and significant natural gas storage in place, leading to excess gas supply. NYMEX natural gas prices averaged $4.40 per MMBtu during 2010, $4.03 per MMBtu during 2011, and $2.82 per MMBtu during 2012, and ended 2012 at $3.35 per MMBtu. As of February 21, 2013, we do not have any natural gas commodity derivative contracts in place.Our production will decline if our access to sufficient amounts of carbon dioxide is limited.Our long-term growth strategy is focused on our CO2 tertiary recovery operations. The crude oil production from our tertiary recovery projects depends on having access to sufficient amounts of CO2. Our ability to produce this oil would be hindered if our supply of CO2 were limited due to problems with our current CO2 producing wells and facilities, including compression equipment, or catastrophic pipeline failure. Our anticipated future crude oil production is also dependent on our ability to increase the production volumes of CO2 and inject adequate amounts of CO2 into the proper formation and area within each oil field. The production of crude oil from tertiary operations is highly dependent on the timing, volumes and location of the CO2 injections. If our crude oil production were to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our planned tertiary operations and the related construction of necessary CO2 pipelines could be delayed by difficulties in obtaining pipeline rights-of-way, permits, or by the listing of certain species as threatened or endangered.The production of crude oil from our planned tertiary operations is also dependent upon having access to pipelines to transport available CO2 to our oil fields at a cost that is economically viable. Our ongoing construction of CO2 pipelines will require us to - 28 -Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc.obtain rights-of-way not only from private landowners, but in certain areas, from the federal government if the proposed pipelines cross federal lands. Certain states where we operate are considering the adoption of laws and regulations that would limit or eliminate a state’s ability to exercise eminent domain over private property, in addition to possible judicially imposed constraints on, and additional requirements for, the exercise of eminent domain. We also conduct operations on federal and other oil and natural gas leases that have species, such as the sage grouse, that could be listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act, which could lead to material restrictions as to federal land use. These laws, regulations and court decisions, together with any other changes in law related to the use of eminent domain or the listing of certain species as threatened or endangered, could inhibit our ability to secure rights-of-way or access land for current or future pipeline construction projects. As a result, obtaining rights-of-way may require additional regulatory and environmental compliance and additional expenditures, which could delay our CO2 pipeline construction schedule and initiation of operations of our pipelines, and/or increase the costs of constructing our pipelines.Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect operations and limit our growth.If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants related to such indebtedness, including covenants in our bank credit facility, we would be in default under our debt instruments. This default could permit the holders of such indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of such indebtedness and could cause defaults under other indebtedness, possibly resulting in our bankruptcy. Our ability to meet our obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions, commodity prices, and financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond our control.As of February 21, 2013, we had outstanding $2.9 billion (principal amount) of subordinated notes at interest rates ranging from 4.625% to 9.75% at a weighted average interest rate of 6.61% and no amounts outstanding under our bank credit facility. We currently have a borrowing base of $1.6 billion under our bank credit facility, and at February 21, 2013, nearly all of this amount was available on such facility. The next regularly scheduled semiannual redetermination of the borrowing base for our bank credit facility will be in May 2013. Our bank borrowing base is adjusted at the banks’ discretion and is based in part upon external factors, such as commodity prices, over which we have no control. If our then redetermined borrowing base is less than our outstanding borrowings under the facility, we will be required to repay the deficit over a period not to exceed four months.We may incur additional indebtedness in the future under our bank credit facility in connection with our acquisition, development, exploitation and exploration of oil and natural gas producing properties. Further, our cash flow from operations is highly dependent on the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. If oil and natural gas prices again decrease and remain at depressed levels for an extended period of time, our degree of leverage could increase substantially. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to the following:•a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations may be dedicated to servicing our indebtedness and would not be available for capital expenditures or other purposes;•our level of indebtedness may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate and other purposes;•our interest expense may increase in the event of increases in market interest rates, because bank borrowings are at variable rates of interest;•our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions may be greater as a result of our level of indebtedness, and increases in interest rates thereon, potentially restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities;•our ability to, among other things, borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments may be limited by the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness; and•our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default under such debt instruments which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us.- 29 -Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc.Product price derivative contracts may expose us to potential financial loss.To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently, and may in the future, enter into derivative contracts in order to economically hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production. Derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:•production is less than expected;•the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or•there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received.In addition, these derivative contracts may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. Information as to these activities is set forth under Item 7. Market Risk Management in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in Note 9, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.A worldwide financial downturn or negative credit market conditions may have lasting effects on our liquidity, business and financial condition that we cannot predict.Liquidity is essential to our business. Our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to obtain capital in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or equity capital markets or an inability to access bank financing. A prolonged credit crisis, including the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and related turmoil in the global financial system, could materially affect our liquidity, business and financial condition. These conditions have adversely impacted financial markets and have created substantial volatility and uncertainty, and may continue to do so, with the related negative impact on global economic activity and the financial markets. Negative credit market conditions could materially affect our liquidity and may inhibit our lenders from fully funding our bank credit facility or cause them to make the terms of our bank credit facility more costly and more restrictive. We are subject to semiannual reviews, as well as unscheduled reviews, of our borrowing base under our bank credit facility, and we do not know the results of future redeterminations or the effect of then-current oil and natural gas prices on that process. The economic situation could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables or performance by our suppliers and cause our commodity hedging arrangements to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Additionally, negative economic conditions could lead to reduced demand for oil and natural gas, or lower prices for oil and natural gas, which could have a negative impact on our revenues.Our future performance depends upon our ability to find or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable.Unless we can successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, resulting eventually in a decrease in oil and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations. We have historically replaced reserves through both acquisitions and internal organic growth activities. In the future, we may not be able to continue to replace reserves at acceptable costs. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our oil and natural gas reserves if our cash flows from operations are reduced, due to lower oil or natural gas prices or otherwise, or if external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. Further, the process of using CO2 for tertiary recovery and the related infrastructure requires significant capital investment, up to four or five years prior to any resulting production and cash flows from these projects, heightening potential capital constraints. If we do not continue to make significant capital expenditures, or if outside capital resources become limited, we may not be able to maintain our growth rate or meet expectations.During the last few years, we have acquired several fields at a significant cost because we believe that they have significant additional potential through tertiary flooding; we paid a premium price for these properties based on that assumption. In addition, we plan to continue acquiring other oil fields that we believe are tertiary flood candidates. We are investing significant amounts of capital as part of this strategy. If we are unable to successfully develop the potential oil in these acquired fields, it would negatively affect the return on our investment on these acquisitions and could severely reduce our ability to obtain additional capital for the future, fund future acquisitions, and negatively affect our financial results to a significant degree.- 30 -Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc.Oil and natural gas drilling and producing operations involve various risks.Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that new wells drilled by us will not discover commercially productive reservoirs or the risk that we will not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including:•unexpected drilling conditions;•title problems;•pressure or irregularities in formations;•equipment failures or accidents;•adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico that can damage oil and natural gas facilities and delivery systems and disrupt operations, and winter conditions and forest fires in the Rocky Mountain region that can delay or impede operations;•compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and•cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment, pipelines and services.Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties and the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including encountering well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks.The nature of these risks is such that some liabilities could exceed our insurance policy limits, or, as in the case of environmental fines and penalties, cannot be insured. We could incur significant costs related to these risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our CO2 tertiary recovery projects require a significant amount of electricity to operate the facilities. If these costs were to increase significantly, it could have an adverse effect upon the profitability of these operations. Additionally, a portion of our production activities involve CO2 injections into fields with wells plugged and abandoned by prior operators. It is often difficult to determine whether a well has been properly plugged prior to commencing injections and pressuring the oil reservoirs. If wells have not been properly plugged, we will have to modify the wells, which can increase costs, delay our operations and reduce our production.Certain of our operations may be limited during certain periods due to severe weather conditions and other regulations.Certain of our operations in North Dakota, Montana and Wyoming are conducted in areas subject to extreme weather conditions and often in difficult terrain. As a result, our operations may be delayed because of cold, snow and wet conditions, and certain operations may be practical only during non-winter months. Unusually severe weather could delay certain of these operations, including the construction of CO2 pipelines, the drilling of new wells and production from existing wells, and depending on the severity of the weather, could have a negative effect on our results of operations in this region. Further, certain of our operations are limited to certain time periods due to environmental regulations, which can slow down our operations, cause delays and have a negative effect on our results of operations.Shortages of oil field equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations.The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages in such personnel. In recent years, the competition for qualified technical personnel has been extensive and our personnel costs have been escalating at a rate higher than general inflation. During periods of high oil and natural gas prices, we have experienced shortages of equipment used in our tertiary facilities, drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with higher commodity prices. Higher oil and natural gas prices - 31 -Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc.generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, oilfield equipment and services, and personnel in our exploration and production operations. These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results and/or restrict or delay our ability to drill those wells and conduct those operations that we currently have planned and budgeted, causing us to miss our forecasts and projections.Governmental laws and regulations relating to environmental protection are costly and stringent.Our exploration, production, and marketing operations are subject to complex and stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations affect the costs, manner, and feasibility of our operations and require us to make significant expenditures in our efforts to comply. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions that could limit or prohibit our operations. In addition, some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several, strict liability for contamination resulting from spills, discharges, and releases of substances, including petroleum hydrocarbons and other wastes, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Under such laws and regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed substances and property contamination, including wastes disposed or released by prior owners or operators. Changes in or additions to environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes or additions that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or cleanup or other environmental protection requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position.Enactment of legislative or regulatory proposals under consideration could negatively affect our business.Numerous legislative and regulatory proposals affecting the oil and gas industry have been introduced, are anticipated to be introduced or are otherwise under consideration by Congress and various federal agencies. Among these proposals are: (1) climate change/carbon tax legislation introduced in Congress and EPA regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including an EPA proposal to apply New Source Performance Standards for petroleum refineries expected in 2013; (2) proposals contained in the President's budget, along with legislation introduced in Congress, none of which have passed Congress, to impose new taxes on, or repeal various tax deductions available to, oil and gas producers, such as the current tax deductions for intangible drilling and development costs and qualified tertiary injectant expenses which, if eliminated, could raise the cost of energy production, reduce energy investment and affect the economics of oil and gas exploration and production activities; (3) legislation previously considered by Congress (but not adopted) that would subject the process of hydraulic fracturing to federal regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act and new or anticipated Department of Interior and EPA regulations to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process; and (4) the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act enacted in 2011, which increases penalties, grants new authority to impose damage prevention and incident notification requirements, and directs the Department of Transportation to prescribe minimum safety standards for CO2 pipelines, any of which could affect our operations, and the costs thereof. Generally, any future laws and regulations could result in increased costs or additional operating restrictions and could have an effect on demand for oil and natural gas or prices at which it can be sold. However, until such legislation or regulations are enacted or adopted into law and implemented, it is not possible to gauge their impact on our future operations or our results of operations and financial condition.Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development may be eliminated, and additional state taxes on natural gas extraction may be imposed, as a result of future legislation.In recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax benefits and deductions currently available to oil and gas companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (1) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (2) the increase of the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses, (3) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs and qualified tertiary injectant expenses, and (4) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities. It is unclear whether any such proposals will be enacted into law and, if so, what form such laws might possibly take. The passage of such legislation or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate, reduce or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available to us, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.- 32 -Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc.The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. These new rules and regulations could significantly increase the cost or decrease the liquidity of energy-related derivatives we use to hedge against commodity price fluctuations. Although we believe the derivative contracts that we enter into should not be materially impacted by these new statutory and regulatory requirements, because derivatives regulations have not been finalized, final regulations could negatively affect to our detriment the economics and terms of derivative instruments available from counterparties in the marketplace.The loss of more than one of our large oil and natural gas purchasers could have a material adverse effect on our operations.For the year ended December 31, 2012, two purchasers individually accounted for 10% or more of our oil and natural gas revenues and, in the aggregate, for 56% of such revenues. The loss of a large single purchaser could potentially reduce the competition for our oil and natural gas production, which in turn could negatively impact the prices we receive.Estimating our reserves, production and future net cash flows is difficult to do with any certainty. Estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves is a complex process. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors such as future commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. There are numerous uncertainties about when a property may have proved reserves as compared to potential or probable reserves, particularly relating to our tertiary recovery operations. Forecasting the amount of oil reserves recoverable from tertiary operations and the production rates anticipated therefrom requires estimates, one of the most significant being the oil recovery factor. Actual results most likely will vary from our estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes, as prescribed by the SEC, may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions or changes of conditions could result in a reduction of the quantities and net present value of our reserves.The reserve data included in documents incorporated by reference represent only estimates. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions, including first-day-of-the-month average oil and natural gas prices for the 12-month period preceding the date of the assessment. Our reserves and future cash flows may be subject to revisions based upon changes in economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices, as well as due to production results, results of future development, operating and development costs, and other factors. Downward revisions of our reserves could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and cost used in the estimate.As of December 31, 2012, approximately 40% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and may require successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, but these assumptions may not be accurate, and these expenditures and operations may not occur.Significant acquisitions or other transactions could require substantial external capital and could change our risk and property profile.To finance acquisitions, we may need to substantially alter or increase our capitalization through the use of our bank credit facility, the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments, or by other means. Such changes in capitalization could significantly affect our risk profile. Additionally, significant acquisitions or other transactions can change the character of our operations and business. The character of the new properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location from that of our existing properties.- 33 -Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc.Our results of operations could be negatively affected as a result of goodwill impairments.Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired in the acquisition of a business. At December 31, 2012, the Company's goodwill balance totaled $1.3 billion and represented approximately 11.5% of our total assets. Goodwill is not amortized; rather it is tested for impairment annually during the fourth quarter and when facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the Company's goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. An impairment of goodwill could significantly reduce earnings during the period in which the impairment occurs and would result in a corresponding reduction to goodwill and equity. See Item 7 – Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Impairment Assessment of Goodwill.We may lose executive officers or other key management personnel, which could endanger the future success of our operations.Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key management personnel. Our employees, including our executive officers, are employed at will and do not have employment agreements. If one or more members of our management team dies, becomes disabled or voluntarily terminates employment with us, there is no assurance that we will find a suitable or comparable substitute. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial personnel. Competition for persons with these skills is intense, and we cannot assure that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. The loss of any of our management personnel could adversely affect our operations.A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption, and/or financial loss.Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations, including certain of our exploration, development and production activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information and in many other activities related to our business. Our technologies, systems and networks may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the disruption of our business operations. For example, unauthorized access to our seismic data, reserves information or other proprietary information could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruptions in our drilling or production operations.To date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks, however there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cyber-vulnerabilities.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThere are no unresolved written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 received 180 days or more before the end of the fiscal year to which this annual report on Form 10-K relates.