Risk Factors Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial decrease in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial results. Our future financial condition, results of operations and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production. Oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile, and may continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current world geopolitical conditions. As a result of the low oil and natural gas prices at year-end 2008, we recorded a $226.0 million full cost ceiling test write-down. Oil and natural gas prices have continued their volatility, with NYMEX oil prices per barrel increasing 15% between year-end 2009 and year-end 2010, and NYMEX natural gas prices per MMBtu decreasing by 21% during the year. Future decreases in commodity prices could require us to record additional full cost ceiling test write-downs. The amount of any future write-down is difficult to predict and will depend upon the oil and natural gas prices at the end of each period, the incremental proved reserves that might be added during each period and additional capital spent. Our cash flow from operations is highly dependent on the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. This price volatility also affects the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Oil prices are likely to affect us more than natural gas prices because approximately 85% of our December 31, 2010 proved reserves are oil, with oil being an even larger percentage of our future potential reserves and projects due to our focus on tertiary operations. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • the level of consumer demand for oil and natural gas; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • domestic governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuel sources; • weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico that can damage oil and natural gas facilities and delivery systems and disrupt operations; • market uncertainty; • political conditions in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East; and • worldwide economic conditions. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets generally make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements. Also, oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily move in tandem. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations, oil and natural gas reserves and the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties. If the oil and natural gas industry experiences significant price declines, we may, among other things, be unable to meet our financial obligations or make planned expenditures. Since the end of 1998, oil prices have gone from near historic low prices around $12.00 per Bbl to record highs of approximately $145 per Bbl in July 2008. During the last half of 2008, oil prices declined substantially, ending the year at a NYMEX price of $44.60 per Bbl. Oil prices again increased through 2009 and 2010, ending 2009 at a NYMEX price of $79.36 per barrel and ending 2010 at a NYMEX price of $91.38 per barrel. As of February 28, 2011, we have oil commodity derivative contracts in place covering approximately 51,000 Bbls/d during 2011 and 53,750 Bbls/d during the first half of 2012. As a result, oil prices could decline to a level that makes our tertiary projects uneconomic. 23 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. If that were to happen, we may decide to suspend future expansion projects, and if prices were to drop below the cash break-even point for an extended period of time, we may decide to shut-in existing production, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Since operating costs do not decrease as quickly as commodity prices, it is difficult to determine a precise break-even point for our tertiary projects. Based on prior history, we estimate our economic break-even (before corporate overhead and expenses on these projects at current oil prices) occurs at per barrel dollar costs in the range of the mid-to-upper 30s, depending on the specific field and area. The prices we receive for our crude oil do not always correlate with NYMEX prices. The prices we receive for our crude oil production can vary from NYMEX oil prices depending on the quality of the crude oil we sell, the location of our crude oil production and the related markets we sell to, and the pricing contracts and indices we sell at. Our NYMEX differentials on a field-by-field basis over the last few years have ranged from a positive $10 per Bbl to a negative $35 per Bbl. On a corporate-wide basis, our NYMEX differentials over the last few years have ranged from a low of approximately $1.50 per Bbl below NYMEX oil prices to a high of almost $10.00 per Bbl below NYMEX prices. These variances have been due to various factors and are difficult to forecast or anticipate but have a direct impact on the net oil price we receive. Natural gas prices have also experienced volatility during the last few years. During 1999, natural gas prices averaged approximately $2.35 per Mcf and, like crude oil prices, have generally trended upward since that time, although with significant fluctuations along the way. NYMEX natural gas prices averaged $8.89 per MMBtu during 2008, $4.16 per MMBtu during 2009, $4.40 per MMBtu during 2010, and ended 2010 at $4.41 per MMBtu. We have natural gas commodity derivative contracts in place covering approximately 33,500 Mcf/d during 2011 and 20,000 Mcf/d during 2012 (please refer to Note 9, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding our commodity derivative contracts). Our production will decline if our access to sufficient amounts of carbon dioxide is limited. Our long-term growth strategy is focused on our CO2 tertiary recovery operations. The crude oil production from our tertiary recovery projects depends on having access to sufficient amounts of CO2 . Our ability to produce this oil would be hindered if our supply of CO2 were limited due to problems with our current CO2 producing wells and facilities, including compression equipment, or catastrophic pipeline failure. Our anticipated future crude oil production is also dependent on our ability to increase the production volumes of CO2 and inject adequate amounts of CO2 into the proper formation and area within each oil field. The production of crude oil from tertiary operations is highly dependent on the timing, volumes and location of the CO2 injections. If our crude oil production were to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our planned tertiary operations and the related construction of necessary CO2 pipelines could be delayed by difficulties in obtaining pipeline rights-of-way or other permits. The production of crude oil from our planned tertiary operations is dependent upon having access to sufficient amounts of CO2 and pipelines to transport this CO2 to our oil fields at a cost that is economically viable. Our ongoing construction of CO2 pipelines will require us to obtain rights-of-way from private landowners and, in certain areas, from the federal government if the proposed pipelines cross federal lands. As a result, obtaining these rights-of-way may require additional regulatory and environmental compliance and additional expenditures, which could delay our CO2 pipeline construction schedule and increase the costs of constructing those pipelines. Certain of our operations may be limited during certain periods due to severe weather conditions and other regulations. Certain of our operations in North Dakota, Montana and Wyoming are conducted in areas subject to extreme weather conditions and often in difficult terrain. As a result, our operations may be delayed because of cold, snow and wet conditions. Due to the harsh winter, certain operations may only be practical during non-winter months. Unusually severe weather could delay certain of these operations, including the construction of CO2 pipelines, the drilling of new wells and production from existing wells, and depending on the severity of the weather, could have a negative effect on our results of operations in this region. Further, certain of our operations are limited to certain time periods due to environmental regulations. These time restrictions could also slow down our operations, cause delays, and have a negative effect on our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect operations and limit our growth. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on our indebtedness or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in such indebtedness, including covenants in our senior secured credit facilities, we would be in default under our debt instruments. This default would permit the holders of such indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of such indebtedness and could cause defaults under other indebtedness or result in our bankruptcy. Our ability to meet our obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions, commodity prices, and to financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond our control. As of February 17, 2011, we had outstanding $2.2 billion (principal amount) of subordinated notes at interest rates ranging from 6.375% to 9.75% at a weighted average interest rate of 8.28% and $130 million of bank debt. At that time, we had approximately $1.47 billion available on our bank credit line. We currently have a bank borrowing base of $1.6 billion. The next semi-annual redetermination of the borrowing base for our bank credit facility will be on May 1, 2011. Our bank borrowing base is adjusted at the banks’ discretion and is based in part upon external factors, such as commodity prices, over which we have no control. If our then redetermined borrowing base is less than our outstanding borrowings under the facility, we will be required to repay the deficit over a period of four months. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future under our bank credit facility, in connection with our acquisition, development, exploitation and exploration of oil and natural gas producing properties. Further, our cash flow from operations is highly dependent on the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. If oil and natural gas prices again decrease, and remain at depressed levels for an extended period of time, our degree of leverage could increase substantially. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to the following: • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations may be dedicated to servicing our indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes; • our level of indebtedness may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate and other purposes; • our interest expense may increase in the event of increases in interest rates, because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions may be greater as a result of our level of indebtedness, and increases in interest rates thereon, potentially restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; • our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments may be limited by the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness limit; and • our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default under such debt instruments which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. 25 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. Product price derivative contracts may expose us to potential financial loss. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently and may in the future enter into derivative contracts in order to economically hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production. Derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: • production is less than expected; • the counter-party to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or • there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received. In addition, these derivative contracts may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. Information as to these activities is set forth under Market Risk Management in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in Note 9, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our future performance depends upon our ability to find or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we can successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, resulting eventually in a decrease in oil and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations. We have historically replaced reserves through both acquisitions and internal organic growth activities. In the future, we may not be able to continue to replace reserves at acceptable costs. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our oil and natural gas reserves if our cash flows from operations are reduced, due to lower oil or natural gas prices or otherwise, or if external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. Further, the process of using CO2 for tertiary recovery and the related infrastructure requires significant capital investment, up to four or five years prior to any resulting production and cash flows from these projects, heightening potential capital constraints. If we do not continue to make significant capital expenditures, or if outside capital resources become limited, we may not be able to maintain our growth rate or meet expectations. During the last few years, we have acquired several fields at a significant cost because we believe that they have significant additional potential through tertiary flooding and we paid a premium price for these properties based on that assumption. In addition, we plan to continue acquiring other oil fields that we believe are tertiary flood candidates, likely at a premium price. We are investing significant amounts of capital as part of this strategy. If we are unable to successfully develop the potential oil in these acquired fields, it would negatively affect the return on our investment on these acquisitions and could severely reduce our ability to obtain additional capital for the future, fund future acquisitions, and negatively affect our financial results to a significant degree. We face competition from other oil and natural gas companies in all aspects of our business, including acquisition of producing properties and oil and gas leases. Many of our competitors have substantially larger financial and other resources. Other factors that affect our ability to acquire producing properties include available funds, available information about prospective properties and our standards established for minimum projected return on investment. The occurrence of a financial crisis, such as the financial crisis in recent years, may have lasting effects on our liquidity, business and financial condition that we cannot predict. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to obtain capital in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or equity capital markets or an inability to access bank financing. A prolonged credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system would likely materially affect our liquidity, business and our financial condition. The economic situation could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables or performance by our suppliers and cause our commodity hedging arrangements to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Additionally, the current economic condition could lead to reduced demand for oil and gas, or lower prices for oil and gas, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. Oil and natural gas drilling and producing operations involve various risks. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. There can be no assurance that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The seismic data and other technologies used 26 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. by us do not provide conclusive knowledge, prior to drilling a well, that oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • title problems; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico that can damage oil and natural gas facilities and delivering systems and disrupt operations; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and • cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and services. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties and the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including encountering well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks. The nature of these risks is such that some liabilities could exceed our insurance policy limits, or, as in the case of environmental fines and penalties, cannot be insured. We could incur significant costs, related to these risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our CO2 tertiary recovery projects require a significant amount of electricity to operate the facilities. If these costs were to increase significantly, it could have an adverse effect upon the profitability of these operations. Shortages of oil field equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. During periods of high oil and gas prices, we have experienced shortages of equipment used in our tertiary facilities, drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with higher commodity prices. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, oilfield equipment and services and personnel in our exploration and production operations. These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results and/or restrict or delay our ability to drill those wells and conduct those operations that we currently have planned and budgeted, causing us to miss our forecasts and projections. We depend on our key personnel. We believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management. The loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We do not have any employment agreements and do not maintain any key man life insurance policies. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of more than one of our large oil and natural gas purchasers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, two purchasers each accounted for more than 10% of our oil and natural gas revenues and in the aggregate, for 60% of these revenues. However, the loss of a large single purchaser could potentially reduce the competition for our oil and natural gas production, which in turn could negatively impact the prices we receive. 27 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. Estimating our reserves, production and future net cash flows is difficult to do with any certainty. Estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves is a complex process. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, such as future commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. There are numerous uncertainties about when a property may have proved reserves as compared to potential or probable reserves, particularly relating to our tertiary recovery operations. Forecasting the amount of oil reserves recoverable from tertiary operations and the production rates anticipated therefrom requires estimates, one of the most significant being the oil recovery factor. Actual results most likely will vary from our estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes, as prescribed by the SEC, may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions or changes of conditions could result in a reduction of the quantities and net present value of our reserves. The reserve data included in documents incorporated by reference represent only estimates. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices in existence at the date of assessment. Our reserves and future cash flows may be subject to revisions based upon changes in economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices, as well as due to production results, results of future development, operating and development costs and other factors. Downward revisions of our reserves could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and cost as of the date of the estimate. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 40% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and may require successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, but these assumptions may not be accurate, and this may not occur. We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations, including environmental laws, which could adversely affect our business. Exploration for and development, exploitation, production and sale of oil and natural gas in the United States are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex tax laws and environmental laws and regulations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws, regulations or incremental taxes and fees, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. It is possible that new taxes on our industry could be implemented and/or tax benefits could be eliminated or reduced, reducing our profitability and available cash flow. In addition to the short-term negative impact on our financial results, such additional burdens, if enacted, would reduce our funds available for reinvestment and thus ultimately reduce our growth and future oil and natural gas production. Enactment of legislative or regulatory proposals under consideration could negatively affect our business. Numerous legislative and regulatory proposals affecting the oil and gas industry have been proposed or are under consideration by the current federal administration, Congress and various federal agencies. Among these proposals are: (1) climate change legislation introduced in Congress, Environmental Protection Agency regulations, carbon emission “cap-and-trade” regimens, and related proposals, none of which have been adopted in final form; (2) proposals contained in the President’s budget, along with legislation introduced in Congress, none of which have been enacted by both houses of Congress, to impose new taxes on or repeal various tax deductions available to oil and gas producers, such as the current tax deduction for intangible drilling and development costs and the current deduction for qualified tertiary injectant expenses, which if eliminated could raise the cost of energy production, reduce energy investment and affect the economics of oil and gas exploration and production activities; (3) legislation being considered by Congress that would subject the process of hydraulic fracturing to federal regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act; and (4) pipeline safety legislation proposed in the United States Senate in February 2011, including CO2 pipeline safety provisions, any of which could affect Company operations, their effectiveness, and the costs thereof. Generally, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have an effect on demand for oil and gas or prices at which it can be sold. Until any such legislation or regulations are enacted or adopted, it is not possible to gauge their impact on our future operations or our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. We may experience an impairment of our goodwill. We test goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that may indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. The need to test for impairment can be based on several indicators, including but not limited to a significant reduction in the price of oil or natural gas, a full cost ceiling write-down of oil and natural gas properties, unfavorable revisions to oil and natural gas reserves and significant changes in the expected timing of production, or changes in the regulatory environment. Fair value calculated for the purpose of testing for impairment of our goodwill is estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows method and comparative market prices when appropriate. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these fair value estimates for goodwill since the results are based on estimated future cash flows and assumptions related thereto. Significant assumptions include estimates of future oil and natural gas prices, projections of estimated quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, estimates of future rates of production, timing and amount of future development and operating costs, estimated availability and cost of CO2, projected recovery factors of reserves and risk-adjusted discount rates. We base our fair value estimates on projected financial information which we believe to be reasonable. However, actual results may differ from those projections. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 