Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect operations and limit our growth. General If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on our indebtedness or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in such indebtedness, including covenants in our senior secured credit facilities, we would be in default under our debt instruments. This default would permit the holders of such indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of such indebtedness and could cause defaults under other indebtedness or result in our bankruptcy. Our ability to meet our obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions, commodity prices, and to financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond our control. Denbury Stand-Alone As of February 15, 2010, we had outstanding $525 million (principal amount) of 7.5% subordinated notes, $426.4 million (principal amount) of 9.75% Senior Subordinated Notes, $1.0 billion of 8.25% Senior Subordinated Notes (held in escrow pending completion of the Merger and tender of Encore notes), and $125 million of bank debt. At that time, we had approximately $625 million available on our bank credit line. We currently have a bank borrowing base of $900 million, with a commitment amount of $750 million. The borrowing base represents the amount that can be borrowed from a credit standpoint, while the commitment amount is the amount the banks have committed to fund pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement. The next semi-annual redetermination of the borrowing base for our bank credit facility will be on April 1, 2010, assuming the Merger is not completed. Our bank borrowing base is adjusted at the banks’ discretion and is based in part upon external factors, such as commodity prices, over which we have no control. If our then redetermined borrowing base is less than our outstanding borrowings under the facility, we will be required to repay the deficit over a period of six months. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future under our bank credit facility (which we anticipate being a $1.6 billion facility if the Encore Merger closes), in connection with our acquisition, development, exploitation and exploration of oil and natural gas producing properties. Our projected 2010 capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions and capital expenditures related to the Encore acquisition, are expected to be between $150 million and $250 million higher than our projected 2010 cash flow from operations. Further, our cash flow from operations is highly dependent on the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. If oil and natural gas prices again decrease, and remain at depressed levels for an extended period of time, our degree of leverage could increase substantially. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to the following: • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations may be dedicated to servicing our indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes; • as a result of the discretionary nature of the setting of our bank borrowing base and its being highly dependent on current commodity prices, if commodity prices were to substantially decrease, our banks could reduce our borrowing base so that we could not borrow additional funds or to a level below our outstanding debt that would require us to repay any deficit (between the borrowing base and the outstanding bank debt) over a four month period; • our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to continue to meet our obligations under our indebtedness; • our level of indebtedness may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate and other purposes; 25 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. • our interest expense may increase in the event of increases in interest rates, because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions may be greater as a result of our level of indebtedness, and increases in interest rates thereon, potentially restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; • our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments may be limited by the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness limit; and • our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default under such debt instruments which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Combined Company – Post Denbury/Encore Merger Denbury will be more leveraged after the merger than it has been historically. Upon closing of the merger and the revolving credit facility contemplated by the merger agreement, we will have $1.975 billion of revolving credit facilities. Borrowings under the newly committed credit facility combined with Denbury’s existing debt, including the $1 billion of 8.25% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 issued in February 2010, are expected to be approximately $3.6 billion of total pro forma combined long-term debt after the completion of the merger. This level of indebtedness could result in Denbury having difficulty accessing capital markets or raising capital on favorable terms and Denbury’s financial results could be negatively affected by its inability to raise capital or because of the cost of such capital. Our substantial debt following the merger and the related financing could have important consequences for us. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt or to comply with any restrictive terms of our debt; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate; or • place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, although we and Encore both have hedges in place for 2010 and 2011, these hedges have varying floors and ceilings and will only partially protect the combined company’s cash flow. A decline in commodity prices may require that we reduce our planned capital expenditures, which may have a corresponding negative effect on our anticipated production growth. Our production will decline if our access to sufficient amounts of carbon dioxide is limited. Our long-term growth strategy is focused on our CO2 tertiary recovery operations. The crude oil production from our tertiary recovery projects depends on having access to sufficient amounts of carbon dioxide. Our ability to produce this oil would be hindered if our supply of carbon dioxide were limited due to problems with our current CO2 producing wells and facilities, including compression equipment, or catastrophic pipeline failure. Our anticipated future crude oil production is also dependent on our ability to increase the production volumes of CO2 and inject adequate amounts of CO2 into the proper formation and area within each oil field. The production of crude oil from tertiary operations is highly dependent on the timing, volumes and location of the CO2 injections. If our crude oil production were to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the production of crude oil from our planned expansion of tertiary operations into the Rocky Mountain region depends on having access to sufficient amounts of CO2 in this region. The ability to produce this oil and execute this growth strategy would be hindered if we were unable to obtain necessary CO2 volumes in the Rocky Mountain region at a cost that is economically viable. 26 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial decrease in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial results. Our future financial condition, results of operations and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production. Oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile, have been particularly volatile over the last 18 months, and may continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current world geopolitical conditions. As a result of the low oil and natural gas prices at December 31, 2008, we recorded a $226.0 million full cost ceiling test write-down. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, oil and natural gas prices have continued their volatility, with NYMEX oil prices per barrel increasing 78% between year-end 2008 and year-end 2009, and NYMEX natural gas prices per MMBtu decreasing by 3% during the year. Future decreases in commodity prices could require us to record additional full cost ceiling test write-downs. The amount of any future write-down is difficult to predict and will depend upon the oil and natural gas prices at the end of each period, the incremental proved reserves that might be added during each period and additional capital spent. Our cash flow from operations is highly dependent on the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. This price volatility also affects the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow or have outstanding under our bank credit facility is subject to semi-annual redeterminations. Oil prices are likely to affect us more than natural gas prices because approximately 93% of our December 31, 2009 proved reserves are oil, prior to closing the pending Encore acquisition, with oil being an even larger percentage of our future potential reserves and projects due to our focus on tertiary operations. As part of the planned Encore acquisition (see “Item 1 – Business — Definitive Merger Agreement to Acquire Encore Acquisition Company”), we have announced plans to sell a portion of the acquired assets in order to reduce indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition. If commodity prices were to decrease from price levels that existed at the time we entered into the merger agreement with Encore, such assets may be sold for amounts less than we effectively paid for those assets and possibly for less than we believe are the long-term value of the properties. However, if we choose to reduce the number of assets we sell to avoid asset sales for amounts below our valuations, or if we are unable to obtain a reasonable price for these assets, we would remain more highly leveraged than our historical leverage levels, increasing the risk of adverse financial consequences because of our higher debt levels. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • the level of consumer demand for oil and natural gas; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • the price of foreign oil and natural gas; • domestic governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuel sources; • weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico; • market uncertainty; • political conditions in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East; and • worldwide economic conditions. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets generally make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements. Also, oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily move in tandem. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations, oil and natural gas reserves and the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties. If the oil and 27 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. natural gas industry experiences significant price declines, we may, among other things, be unable to meet our financial obligations or make planned expenditures. Since the end of 1998, oil prices have gone from near historic low prices to historic highs. At the end of 1998, NYMEX oil prices were at historic lows of approximately $12.00 per Bbl, but have generally increased since that time, albeit with fluctuations. For 2008, NYMEX oil prices increases throughout the first six months, averaging approximately $111.03 per Bbl for the first six months of 2008. During the last half of 2008, oil prices declined substantially, ending the year at a NYMEX price of $44.60 per Bbl. Oil prices again increased through 2009, ending the year at a NYMEX price of $79.36 per barrel. We have oil commodity derivative contracts in place covering approximately 30,000 Bbls/d during 2010 and 25,000 Bbls/d during 2011 (please refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding our commodity derivative contracts). We currently do not have any oil or natural gas commodity derivative contracts in place for subsequent years, and therefore oil prices could decline to a level that makes our tertiary projects uneconomic. If that were to happen, we may decide to suspend future expansion projects, and if prices were to drop below the cash break-even point for an extended period of time, we may decide to shut-in existing production, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Since operating costs do not decrease as quickly as commodity prices, it is difficult to determine a precise break-even point for our tertiary projects. Based on prior history, we estimate our economic break-even (before corporate overhead and expenses on these projects at current oil prices) occurs at per barrel dollar costs in the range of the mid-thirties, depending on the specific field and area. The prices we receive for our crude oil do not always correlate with NYMEX prices. Our NYMEX differentials over the last few years have ranged from a low of approximately $1.50 per Bbl to a high of almost $10.00 per Bbl. These variances have been due to various factors and are difficult to forecast or anticipate but have a direct impact on the net oil price we receive. Natural gas prices have also experienced volatility during the last few years. During 1999, natural gas prices averaged approximately $2.35 per Mcf and, like crude oil prices, have generally trended upward since that time, although with significant fluctuations along the way. NYMEX natural gas prices averaged $7.09 per MMBtu during 2007, $8.89 per MMBtu during 2008, $4.16 per MMBtu during 2009, and ended 2009 at $5.57 per MMBtu. The recent financial crisis may have lasting effects on our liquidity, business and financial condition that we cannot predict. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to obtain capital in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or equity capital markets or an inability to access bank financing. A prolonged credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system would likely materially affect our liquidity, business and our financial condition. The economic situation could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables or performance by our suppliers and cause our commodity hedging arrangements to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Additionally, the recent economic situation and current economic condition could lead to reduced demand for oil and gas, or lower prices for oil and gas, or both, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. Product price derivative contracts may expose us to potential financial loss. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently and may in the future enter into derivative contracts in order to economically hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production. Derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: • production is less than expected; • the counter-party to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or • there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received. In addition, these derivative contracts may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. Information as to these activities is set forth under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 28 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk Management,” and in Note 10, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our future performance depends upon our ability to find or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we can successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, resulting eventually in a decrease in oil and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations. We have historically replaced reserves through both acquisitions and internal organic growth activities. In the future, we may not be able to continue to replace reserves at acceptable costs. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our oil and natural gas reserves if our cash flows from operations are reduced, due to lower oil or natural gas prices or otherwise, or if external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. Further, the process of using CO2 for tertiary recovery and the related infrastructure requires significant capital investment, up to four or five years prior to any resulting production and cash flows from these projects, heightening potential capital constraints. If we do not continue to make significant capital expenditures, or if outside capital resources become limited, we may not be able to maintain our growth rate or meet expectations. In addition, certain of our operating activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reserves will be produced. During the last few years, we have acquired several fields at a significant cost because we believe that they have significant additional potential through tertiary flooding and we paid a premium price for these properties based on that assumption. In addition, we plan to continue acquiring other old oil fields that we believe are tertiary flood candidates, likely at a premium price. We are investing significant amounts of capital as part of this strategy. If we are unable to successfully develop the potential oil in these acquired fields, it would negatively affect the return on our investment on these acquisitions and could severely reduce our ability to obtain additional capital for the future, fund future acquisitions, and negatively affect our financial results to a significant degree. We face competition from other oil and natural gas companies in all aspects of our business, including acquisition of producing properties and oil and gas leases. Many of our competitors have substantially larger financial and other resources. Other factors that affect our ability to acquire producing properties include available funds, available information about prospective properties and our standards established for minimum projected return on investment. Oil and natural gas drilling and producing operations involve various risks. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. There can be no assurance that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The seismic data and other technologies used by us do not provide conclusive knowledge, prior to drilling a well, that oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • title problems; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico that can damage oil and natural gas facilities and delivering systems and disrupt operations; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and 29 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. • cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and services. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties and the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including encountering well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks. The nature of these risks is such that some liabilities could exceed our insurance policy limits, or, as in the case of environmental fines and penalties, cannot be insured. We could incur significant costs, related to these risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our CO2 tertiary recovery projects require a significant amount of electricity to operate the facilities. If these costs were to increase significantly, it could have an adverse effect upon the profitability of these operations. We depend on our key personnel. We believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management. The loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We do not have any employment agreements and do not maintain any key man life insurance policies. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Upon consummation of the planned Encore acquisition (see “Item 1 – Business – Definitive Merger Agreement to Acquire Encore Acquisition Company”), we will require more personnel to properly manage the acquired assets. While we hope to retain existing Encore personnel in sufficient numbers to meet these needs, there is no assurance that they will agree to continued employment by a new company or be willing to relocate in order to accommodate such an employment change. In that situation, if we are unable to attract personnel in the open marketplace to meet these needs, the lack of personnel could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. Further, without a proper integration of the two companies, we may not operate at our highest levels of efficiency, which also could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. Shortages of oil field equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. During periods of high oil and gas prices, we have experienced shortages of equipment used in our tertiary facilities, drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with higher commodity prices. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, oilfield equipment and services and personnel in our exploration and production operations. These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results and/or restrict or delay our ability to drill those wells and conduct those operations that we currently have planned and budgeted, causing us to miss our forecasts and projections. The loss of more than one of our large oil and natural gas purchasers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, two purchasers each accounted for more than 10% of our oil and natural gas revenues and in the aggregate, for 73% of these revenues. We would not expect the loss of any single purchaser to have a material adverse effect upon our operations. However, the loss of a large single purchaser could potentially reduce the competition for our oil and natural gas production, which in turn could negatively impact the prices we receive. 30 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. Estimating our reserves, production and future net cash flows is difficult to do with any certainty. Estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves is a complex process. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, such as future commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. There are numerous uncertainties about when a property may have proved reserves as compared to potential or probable reserves, particularly relating to our tertiary recovery operations. Forecasting the amount of oil reserves recoverable from tertiary operations and the production rates anticipated there from requires estimates, one of the most significant being the oil recovery factor. Actual results most likely will vary from our estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes, as prescribed by the SEC, may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions or changes of conditions could result in a reduction of the quantities and net present value of our reserves. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices in existence at the date of assessment. Our reserves and future cash flows may be subject to revisions based upon changes in economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices, as well as due to production results, results of future development, operating and development costs and other factors. Downward revisions of our reserves could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The reserve data included in documents incorporated by reference represent only estimates. Estimates of reserves as of year-end 2009 were prepared using an average price equal to the unweighted arithmetic average of hydrocarbon prices received on a field-by-field basis on the first day of each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2009, in accordance with revised guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to reserves estimates as of year-end 2009. Estimates of reserves as of year-end 2007 and 2008 were prepared using constant prices and costs in accordance with previous guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission based on hydrocarbon prices received on a field-by-field basis as of December 31st of each year. Reserve estimates do not include any value for probable or possible reserves that may exist, nor do they include any value for undeveloped acreage. The reserve estimates represent our net revenue interest in our properties. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and cost as of the date of the estimate. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 38% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and may require successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, but these assumptions may not be accurate, and this may not occur. We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations, including environmental laws, which could adversely affect our business. Exploration for and development, exploitation, production and sale of oil and natural gas in the United States are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex tax laws and environmental laws and regulations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws, regulations or incremental taxes and fees, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. It is possible that new taxes on our industry could be implemented and/or tax benefits could be eliminated or reduced, reducing our profitability and available cash flow. In addition to the short-term negative impact on our financial results, such additional burdens, if enacted, would reduce our funds available for reinvestment and thus ultimately reduce our growth and future oil and natural gas production. Matters subject to regulation include oil and gas production and saltwater disposal operations and our processing, handling and disposal of hazardous materials, such as hydrocarbons and naturally occurring radioactive materials, discharge permits for drilling operations, spacing of wells, environmental protection and taxation. We could incur significant costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental or other laws, including third-party claims for personal injuries and property damage, reclamation costs, remediation and clean-up costs resulting from oil spills and discharges of hazardous materials, fines and sanctions, and other environmental damages. 31 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. Enactment of legislative or regulatory proposals under consideration could negatively affect our business. Numerous legislative and regulatory proposals affecting the oil and gas industry have been proposed or are under consideration by the current federal administration, Congress and various federal agencies. Among these proposals are: (1) climate change legislation introduced in Congress, Environmental Protection Agency regulations, carbon emission “cap-and-trade” regimens, and related proposals, none of which have been adopted in final form; (2) proposals contained in the President’s budget, along with legislation introduced in Congress, none of which have been enacted by both houses of Congress, to repeal various tax deductions available to oil and gas producers, such as the current tax deduction for intangible drilling and development costs and the current deduction for qualified tertiary injectant expenses, which if eliminated could raise the cost of energy production, reduce energy investment and affect the economics of oil and gas exploration and production activities; and (3) legislation being considered by Congress that would subject the process of hydraulic fracturing to federal regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act, which could affect Company operations, their effectiveness, and the costs thereof. Generally, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have an effect on demand for oil and gas or prices at which it can be sold. Until any such legislation or regulations are enacted or adopted, it is not possible to gauge their impact on our future operations or our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to the Merger Business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending may have an adverse effect on Encore or Denbury. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers, partners, regulators and customers may have an adverse effect on Encore. These uncertainties may impair Encore’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated and could cause suppliers, customers and others that deal with Encore to defer purchases or other decisions concerning Encore or seek to change existing business relationships with Encore. Failure to complete the merger or delays in completing the merger could negatively affect our stock prices and future business and operations. If the merger is not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • we will not realize the benefits expected from the merger, including a potentially enhanced financial and competitive position; • the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur and a failure to complete the merger could result in a negative perception by the stock market generally and a resulting decline in the market price of our common stock; • certain costs relating to the merger, including certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and expenses, must be paid even if the merger is not completed, and we may be required to pay substantial fees to the other if the merger agreement is terminated under specified circumstances; • there may be substantial disruption to our business and distraction of our management and employees from day-to-day operations because matters related to the merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; and • delays in completing the merger could exacerbate uncertainties concerning the effect of the merger, which may have an adverse effect on the business following the merger and could defer or detract from the realization of the benefits expected to result from the merger. We are subject to financial risks if we fail to complete the merger under certain circumstances. If we terminate the merger agreement because Denbury stockholders do not adopt the merger agreement, we will be required to pay Encore $60 million, and in certain cases $120 million. If we terminate the merger agreement because we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to consummate the merger, we will be required to pay to Encore a $300 million termination fee. Further, there is a limited exception that would allow our board of directors to withdraw or change its recommendation to holders of our common stock that they vote in favor of the adoption of the merger agreement. Although our board of directors is permitted to take these actions if it determines in good faith that these actions are likely to be required to comply with its fiduciary duties, doing so in specified situations could entitle Encore to terminate the merger agreement and to be paid a termination fee of $120 million. Risks relating to the combined company after the merger The combined company may experience an impairment of its goodwill. We expect a significant increase to our existing goodwill in connection with consummation of the merger and the allocation of the purchase price thereto. We test goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that may indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. The need to test for impairment can be based on several indicators, including but not limited to a significant reduction in the price of oil or natural gas, a full cost ceiling write-down of oil and natural gas properties, unfavorable revisions to oil and natural gas reserves and significant changes in the expected timing of production, or changes in the regulatory environment. Fair value calculated for the purpose of testing for impairment of our goodwill is estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows method and comparative market prices when appropriate. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these fair value estimates for goodwill since the results are based on estimated 32 Table of Contents Denbury Resources Inc. future cash flows and assumptions related thereto. Significant assumptions include estimates of future oil and natural gas prices, projections of estimated quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, estimates of future rates of production, timing and amount of future development and operating costs, estimated availability and cost of CO2, projected recovery factors of reserves and risk-adjusted discount rates. We base our fair value estimates on projected financial information which we believe to be reasonable. However, actual results may differ from those projections. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 