ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Historically, we have lost money from operations and we have made no provision for any contingency, unexpected expenses or increases in costs that may arise. We are an early-stage company and our products have not obtained broad market acceptance. If we are not able to obtain adequate sources of funds to operate our business we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Since inception, we have been able to cover our operating losses from the sale of our securities. We cannot assure you, however, that these sources of funds will be available to cover future operating losses. Our business operations and plans could be adversely affected in the event we need additional financing and are unable to obtain such funding when needed. To the extent that our business strategy requires expanding our operations, such expansion could be costly to implement and may cause us to experience significant continuing losses. It is possible that our available short-term assets and anticipated revenues may not be sufficient to meet our operating expenses, business expansion plans, and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Insufficient funds may prevent us from implementing our business strategy or may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain opportunities for the commercialization of our technology and products. If we cannot generate adequate sales of our products, or increase our revenues through licensing of our technology or other means, then we may be forced to cease operations. In order to succeed as a company, we must continue to develop commercially viable products and sell adequate quantities of products at prices sufficient to generate profits. We may not accomplish these objectives. Even if we are successful in increasing our revenue base, a number of factors may affect future sales of our products. These factors include whether competitors produce alternative or superior products and whether the cost of implementing our products is competitive in the marketplace. In addition, we are attempting to increase revenues through licensing our technology and manufacturing rights, and offering contract design and engineering services. If these proposals are not viable in the marketplace, we may not generate revenues from these efforts. Because we have limited experience, we may be unable to successfully manage planned growth as we complete the transition from a technology development company to a licensing, manufacturing and marketing company. We have limited experience in the commercial manufacturing and marketing arena, limited product sales and marketing experience, and limited staff and support systems, especially compared to competitors in the tire industry. In order to become profitable through the commercialization of our technology and products, they must be cost-effective and economical to implement on a commercial scale. Furthermore, if our technologies and products do not achieve, or if they are unable to maintain, market acceptance or regulatory approval, we may not be profitable. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to license, market and distribute our technologies and products effectively. We have limited experience in the sale and marketing of our lawn and garden products and no significant experience in the marketing and sale of our proposed mining industry and highway-use products. We have limited manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities. Although we have hired consultants to assist us in this transition period, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess any and all risks inherent in the industry. We may not be successful in entering into new licensing or marketing arrangements, engaging independent distributors, or recruiting, training and retaining a larger internal marketing staff and sales force. If we are unable to meet the challenges posed by our planned licensing, manufacturing, distribution and sales growth, our business may fail. We are subject to governmental regulations, including environmental and health and safety regulations. Our business operations are subject to a variety of national, state and local laws and regulations, many of which deal with the environment and health and safety issues. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental and worker health and safety requirements. However, material future expenditures may be 9 necessary if compliance standards change or material unknown conditions that require remediation are discovered. If we fail to comply with present and future environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or interruptions in our operations, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive. The markets for our products are highly competitive on a global basis, with a number of companies having significantly greater resources and market share than us. Many of our competitors also maintain a significantly higher level of brand recognition than we do. Because of greater resources and more widely accepted brand names, many of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in the markets we have targeted or devote greater resources to the development and sale of new products. Most of the products we have developed have not obtained broad market acceptance and rely on our emerging technology. To improve our competitive position, we will need to make significant ongoing investments in manufacturing, customer service and support, marketing, sales, research and development and intellectual property protection. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make such inv estments or that we will maintain or improve our competitive position within the markets we serve. We attempt to protect the critical elements of our proprietary technology as trade secrets. Because of our reliance on trade secrets, we are unable to prevent third parties from independently developing technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or from successfully reverse engineering or otherwise replicating our technology. In certain cases, where the disclosure of information required to obtain a patent would divulge critical proprietary data, we may choose not to patent elements of our proprietary technology and processes which we have developed or may develop in the future and instead rely on trade secret laws to protect certain elements of our proprietary technology and processes. For example, we rely on trade secrets to protect our two key polyurethane formulations. These formulations are critical elements of and central to our proprietary technology. Our trade secrets could be compromised by third parties, or intentionally or accidentally by our employees. There also can be no assurance that others will not independently develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Third parties may also legally reverse engineer our products. Independent development, reverse engineering, or other legal copying of tho se elements of our proprietary technology that we attempt to protect as trade secrets could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without compensating us. The protection of proprietary technology through claims of trade secret status has been the subject of increasing claims and litigation by various companies both in order to protect proprietary rights as well as for competitive reasons, even when proprietary claims are unsubstantiated. The prosecution of litigation to protect our trade secrets or the defense of such claims is costly and unpredictable given the uncertainty and rapid development of the principles of law pertaining to this area. We may also be subject to claims by other parties with regard to the use of technology information and data that may be deemed proprietary to others. The independent development of technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or the reverse engineering of our products by third parties would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the loss of our ability to use any of our trade secrets or other proprietary technology would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because trade secrets do not ensure exclusivity and pose such issues with respect to enforcement, third parties may decline to partner with us or may pay lesser compensation for use of our technology which is protected only by trade secrets. Our business depends on the protection of our patents and other intellectual property and may suffer if we are unable to adequately protect such intellectual property. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our intellectual property. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, strategic partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. There are events that are outside of our control that pose a threat to our intellectual property rights as well as to our products and services. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we license our technology or our products are distributed. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. &nbsp ;Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use 10 of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies designed around any patents that may be issued to us. We have been granted several U.S. patents and have several U.S. patent applications pending relating to certain aspects of our manufacturing technology and use of polyurethane to make tires and we may seek further patents on future innovations. Our ability to either manufacture products or license our technology is substantially dependent on the validity and enforcement of these patents and patents pending. We cannot assure you that our patents will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that patents will be issued for our patents pending, that the rights granted under the patents will provide us competitive advantages or that our current and future patent applications will be granted. Third parties may invalidate our patents Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us based on, among other things: · subsequently discovered prior art; · lack of entitlement to the priority of an earlier, related application; or · failure to comply with the written description, best mode, enablement or other applicable requirements. United States patent law requires that a patent must disclose the “best mode” of creating and using the invention covered by a patent. If the inventor of a patent knows of a better way, or “best mode,” to create the invention and fails to disclose it, that failure could result in the loss of patent rights. Our decision to protect certain elements of our proprietary technologies as trade secrets and to not disclose such technologies in patent applications, may serve as a basis for third parties to challenge and ultimately invalidate certain of our related patents based on a failure to disclose the best mode of creating and using the invention claimed in the applicable patent. If a third party is successful in challenging the validity of our patents, our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business. We may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our products and technologies may be the subject of claims of intellectual property infringement in the future. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, could divert resources and attention and could require us to obtain a license to use the intellectual property of third parties. We may be unable to obtain licenses from these third parties on favorable terms, if at all. Even if a license is available, we may have to pay substantial royalties to obtain it. If we cannot defend such claims or obtain necessary licenses on reasonable terms, we may be precluded from offering most or all of our products or services and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Tires for highway use must meet applicable safety standards prior to marketing which could delay anticipated revenues and increase expenses, while off-the-road tires, although not subject to specific safety standards, are subject to discretionary industry performance evaluations based on product application. Tires intended for highway use must meet applicable federal safety standards through various testing processes. Our prototype polyurethane car tires, temporary spare tire, and medium commercial truck retread material are all subject to such standards. The testing procedures involve submission of sample products to approved independent testing facilities, a process that may entail both significant time and expense. Off-the road tires, including tire retread material, must meet the performance standards established by the manufacturers and end-users based on the criteria established by them after taking into account their specific needs, such as load capacity, terrain and proposed uses. The applicable standards may be changed at any time and meeting current or future performance standards may require reevaluation and additional research and testing. 11 We have received approval for only a limited number of our highway-use products. In the future, we may be unable to obtain the requisite approval for the sale of some of our products. Therefore, the timing of product placement in the market may be difficult to determine, may require additional research, development and testing expenses, and we may not receive revenues from such products as planned. Such delays, our inability to obtain the requisite approval and potential additional expenses could have a negative impact on cash flows, results of operations and business planning. Because our proposed tire products are derived from new technology, our product liability insurance costs will likely increase and we may be exposed to product liability risks that could adversely affect profitability. Even if tests indicate that our tires meet performance standards and our new highway-use tire products are approved for use, these products may subject us to significant product liability claims because the technology is new and there is little history of on-road use. Moreover, because our products are and will be used in applications where their failure could result in substantial injury or death, we could also be subject to product liability claims. Introduction of such new products and increased use of our existing products will most likely increase our product liability premiums and defense of potential claims could increase insurance costs even further, which could substantially increase our expenses. Any insurance we obtain may not be sufficient to cover the losses incurred through such lawsuits. Significant increases in the price of chemical raw materials, steel and other raw materials used in our products could increase our production costs and decrease our profit margins or make our products less competitive in the marketplace due to price increases. The materials used to produce our products are susceptible to price fluctuations due to supply and demand trends, the economic climate and other unforeseen trends. We have recently experienced increases in the cost of wheel components for our tire/wheel assemblies due to the increased cost of steel and have also seen increases in our chemical raw materials pricing. Our raw materials pricing could increase further in the future. Because we are introducing products that will compete, in part, on the basis of price, we may be unable to pass cost increases on to our customers. If we are unable to pass on raw material cost increases to our customers, our future results of operations and cash flow will be materially adversely affected. Our ability to execute our business plan would be harmed if we are unable to retain or attract key personnel. Our polyurethane technology has been developed by a small number of the members of our management team and only a limited number of the members of our management team maintain the technical knowledge to produce our products. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon our ability to retain and attract the services of these and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our management team could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements could be difficult, and competition for such personnel of similar experience is intense. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our officers. Furthermore, we have established an Advisory Group to advise us with respect to product development and marketing. A loss of key members of the Advisory Group could adversely affect our ability to develop and ma rket our products. Costs associated with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued thereunder, our management is required to conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year-end, beginning June 30, 2006. We are required to include in our annual report on Form 10-K a report on our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm also issues a report on management's assessment and on our internal control over financial reporting. We have undertaken significant efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404. Costs associated with these efforts have been significant and will likely continue to be significant for us in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the past our registered 12 independent public accounting firm has identified certain material weaknesses in our accounting procedures and a regulatory review of our periodic reports recently required us to restate certain items in our financial statements. We can provide no assurance that similar or other matters would not be reported in our management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm's audit report. The report or perception of ineffective internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could result in a lower trading price for our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of June 30, 2006, we did not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 