Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Our disclosure and analysis in this report contains forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties. Our forward-looking statements express our current expectations or forecasts of possible future results or events, including projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, future contracts, and forecasts of trends and other matters. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this filing, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise such statements to reflect new circumstances or unanticipated events as they occur. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historic or current facts and often use words such as “anticipate”, “estimate”, “expect”, “believe,” “will likely result,” “outlook,” “project” and other words and expressions of similar meaning. No assurance can be given that the results in any forward-looking statements will be achieved and actual results could be affected by one or more factors, which could cause them to differ materially. For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Risk Factors Certain factors that may affect our business and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements include the following: The demand for our swimming pool and related outdoor lifestyle products has been and may continue to be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions. In economic downturns, the demand for swimming pool or leisure related products may decline as discretionary consumer spending, the growth rate of pool eligible households and swimming pool construction decline. Although maintenance products and repair and replacement equipment that must be purchased by pool owners to maintain existing swimming pools currently account for more than 80% of our net sales and gross profits, the growth of this portion of our business depends on the expansion of the installed pool base and could also be adversely affected by decreases in construction activities similar to the trends in 2007 and 2008. A weakening economy may also cause deferrals of discretionary replacement and refurbish activity. In addition, even in generally favorable economic conditions, severe and/or prolonged downturns in the housing market could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Such downturns expose us to certain additional risks, including but not limited to the risk of customer closures or bankruptcies, which could shrink our potential customer base and inhibit our ability to collect on those customers’ receivables. 7 We believe that homeowners’ access to consumer credit, particularly as facilitated by mortgage-backed financing markets, is a critical enabling factor in the purchase of new pool and irrigation systems. The recent unfavorable economic conditions and downturn in the housing market have resulted in significant tightening of credit markets, which has limited the ability of consumers to access financing for new swimming pool and irrigation systems. If these trends continue or worsen, many consumers will likely not be able to obtain financing for pool and irrigation projects, which could negatively impact our sales of construction related products. We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions. Weather is one of the principal external factors affecting our business. For example, unseasonably late warming trends in the spring or early cooling trends in the fall can shorten the length of the pool season. Also, unseasonably cool weather or extraordinary rainfall during the peak season can decrease swimming pool use, installation and maintenance, as well as landscape installations and maintenance. These weather conditions adversely affect sales of our products. For a discussion regarding seasonality and weather, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations,” of this Form 10-K. Our distribution business is highly dependent on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with suppliers. As a distribution company, maintaining favorable relationships with our suppliers is critical to the success of our business. We believe that we add considerable value to the swimming pool supply chain and landscape supply chain by purchasing products from a large number of manufacturers and distributing the products to a highly fragmented customer base on conditions that are more favorable than these customers could obtain on their own. We believe that we currently enjoy good relationships with our suppliers, who generally offer us competitive pricing, return policies and promotional allowances. However, our inability to maintain favorable relationships with our suppliers could have an adverse effect on our business. Our largest suppliers are Pentair Corporation, Hayward Pool Products, Inc. and Zodiac Pool Systems, Inc., which accounted for approximately 15%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of the costs of products we sold in 2008. A decision by several suppliers, acting in concert, to sell their products directly to retail customers and other end-users of their products, bypassing distribution companies like ours, would have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the loss of a single significant supplier due to financial failure or a decision to sell exclusively to other distributors, retail customers or end user consumers could also adversely affect our business. We dedicate significant resources to promote the benefits and affordability of pool ownership, which we believe greatly benefits our swimming pool customers and suppliers. We face intense competition both from within our industry and from other leisure product alternatives. We face competition from both inside and outside of our industry. Within our industry, we compete against various regional and local distributors and, to a lesser extent, mass market retailers and large pool or landscape supply retailers. Outside of our industry, we compete with sellers of other leisure product alternatives, such as boats and motor homes, and with other companies who rely on discretionary homeowner expenditures, such as home remodelers. New competitors may emerge as there are low barriers to entry in our industry. Some geographic markets that we serve, particularly our four largest, higher density markets in California, Florida, Texas and Arizona, representing approximately 55% of our net sales in 2008, also tend to be more competitive than others. 8 More aggressive competition by mass merchants and large pool or landscape supply retailers could adversely affect our sales. Mass market retailers today carry a limited range of, and devote a limited amount of shelf space to, merchandise and products targeted to our industry. Historically, mass market retailers have generally expanded by adding new stores and product breadth, but their product offering of pool and landscape related products has remained relatively constant. Should mass market retailers increase their focus on the pool or professional landscape industries, or increase the breadth of their pool and landscape related product offerings, they may become a more significant competitor for direct and end-use customers which could have an adverse impact on our business. We may face additional competitive pressures if large pool or landscape supply retailers look to expand their customer base to compete more directly within the distribution channel. We depend on key personnel. We consider our employees to be the foundation for our growth and success. As such, our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including our executive officers and key management personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our operating results could be adversely affected. Past growth may not be indicative of future growth. We have experienced substantial sales growth through acquisitions, market share gains and new sales center openings that have increased our size, scope and geographic distribution. During the past five fiscal years, we have opened 31 new sales centers (net of subsequent closings and consolidations of new sales centers) and have completed 9 acquisitions. These acquisitions have added 69 sales centers, net of sales center closings and consolidations within one year of acquisition, and three centralized shipping locations to our distribution networks. In 2007 and 2008, we also closed 6 existing sales centers. While we contemplate continued growth through acquisitions and internal expansion, no assurance can be made as to our ability to: · penetrate new markets; · identify appropriate acquisition candidates; · complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms and successfully integrate acquired businesses; · obtain financing; · generate sufficient cash flows to support expansion plans and general operating activities; · maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; and · identify and divest assets which do not continue to create value consistent with our objectives. If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected. The growth of our business depends on effective marketing programs. The growth of our business depends on the expansion of the installed pool base. Thus, an important part of our strategy is to promote the growth of the pool industry through our extensive advertising and promotional programs that attempt to raise consumer awareness regarding the benefits and affordability of pool ownership, the ease of pool maintenance and the many ways in which a pool may be enjoyed beyond swimming. These programs include media advertising, website development such as www.swimmingpool.com™ and public relations campaigns. We believe these programs benefit the entire supply chain from our suppliers to our customers. We also promote the growth of our customers’ businesses through comprehensive support programs that offer promotional tools and marketing support to help generate increased sales for our customers. Our programs include such features as personalized websites, brochures, marketing campaigns and business development training. We also provide certain retail store customers with assistance in site selection, store layout and design and business management system implementation. Our inability to sufficiently develop effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs to succeed in a weakened economic environment and an increasingly competitive marketplace, in which we (and our entire supply chain) also compete with other luxury product alternatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 9 Our business is highly seasonal. In 2008, approximately 67% of our net sales and over 100% of our operating income were generated in the second and third quarters of the year, which represent the peak months of swimming pool use, installation, remodeling and repair. Our sales are substantially lower during the first and fourth quarters of the year, when we may incur net losses. The nature of our business subjects us to compliance with Environmental, Health, Transportation and Safety Regulations. We are subject to regulation under federal, state and local environmental, health, transportation and safety requirements, which govern such things as packaging, labeling, handling, transportation, storage and sale of chemicals and fertilizers. For example, we sell algaecides and pest control products that are regulated as pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and various state pesticide laws. These laws are primarily related to labeling, annual registration and licensing. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties or the imposition of injunctive relief. Moreover, compliance with such laws and regulations in the future could prove to be costly, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur such costs in material amounts. These laws and regulations have changed substantially and rapidly over the last 20 years and we anticipate that there will be continuing changes. The clear trend in environmental, health, transportation and safety regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that impact the environment, such as the use and handling of chemical substances. Increasingly, strict restrictions and limitations have resulted in higher operating costs for us and it is possible that the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations will continue to increase. We will attempt to anticipate future regulatory requirements that might be imposed and we will plan accordingly to remain in compliance with changing regulations and to minimize the costs of such compliance. We store chemicals, fertilizers and other combustible materials that involve fire, safety and casualty risks. We store chemicals and fertilizers, including certain combustible, oxidizing compounds, at our sales centers. A fire, explosion or flood affecting one of our facilities could give rise to fire, safety and casualty losses and related liability claims. We maintain what we believe is prudent insurance protection. However, we cannot guarantee that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Successful claims for which we are not fully insured may adversely affect our working capital and profitability. In addition, changes in the insurance industry have generally led to higher insurance costs and decreased availability of coverage. We conduct business internationally, which exposes us to additional risks. Our international operations expose us to certain additional risks, including: · difficulty in staffing international subsidiary operations; · different political and regulatory conditions; · currency fluctuations; · adverse tax consequences; and · dependence on other economies. We source certain products we sell, including our private label products, from Asia and other international sources. There is a greater risk that we may not be able to access products in a timely and efficient manner, and we may also be subject to certain trade restrictions that prevent us from obtaining products. Fluctuations in other factors relating to international trade, such as tariffs, currency exchange rates, transportation costs and inflation are additional risks for our international operations. 10 A terrorist attack or the threat of a terrorist attack could have a material adverse effect on our business. Discretionary spending on leisure product offerings such as ours is generally adversely affected during times of economic or political uncertainty. The potential for terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility could create these types of uncertainties and negatively impact our business for the short or long-term in ways that cannot presently be predicted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 