Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those currently viewed by us to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the information technology industry and/or economic environment may reduce demand for the products and services we sell. Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, general economic conditions, shifts in demand for, or availability of, computer products and software and IT services and industry introductions of new products, upgrades or methods of distribution. The information technology products industry is characterized by abrupt changes in technology, rapid changes in customer preferences, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. Net sales can be dependent on demand for specific product categories, and any change in demand for or supply of such products could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, and/or cause us to record write-downs of obsolete inventory, if we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes. We rely on our suppliers for product availability, marketing funds, purchasing incentives and competitive products to sell. We acquire products for resale both directly from manufacturers and indirectly through distributors. The loss of a supplier could cause a disruption in the availability of products. Additionally, there is no assurance that as manufacturers continue to sell directly to end users and through the distribution channel, they will not limit or curtail the availability of their product to resellers like us. For example, resellers and publishers may attempt to increase the volume of software products distributed electronically through ESD (Electronic Software Distribution) technology, through subscription services, and through on-line shopping services, and correspondingly, decrease the volume of product sold through us. Our inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of product, or an allocation of products from a manufacturer in a way that favors one of our competitors, or competing distribution channels, relative to us, could cause us to be unable to fill clients’ orders in a timely manner, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also rely on our suppliers to provide funds for us to market their products, including through our catalogs and on-line marketing efforts, and to provide purchasing incentives to us. If any of the suppliers that have historically provided these benefits to us decide to reduce the benefits, our expenses would increase, adversely affecting our results of operations. Page 7 The Current Economic Downturn May Reduce our Revenues and Profits. The ongoing general economic downturn is causing some of our current and potential customers to delay or reduce technology purchases and results in longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. We may therefore experience a decline in demand for the products we sell, resulting in increased competition and pressure to reduce the cost of operations. Any benefits from cost reductions may take longer to realize and may not fully mitigate the impact of the reduced demand. In addition, weak financial and credit markets heighten the risk of customer bankruptcies and a corresponding delay in collecting receivables from those customers and may also affect our vendors' ability to supply products, which could disrupt our operations. The realization of any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. The IT products and services industry is intensely competitive and actions of competitors, including manufacturers of products we sell, can negatively affect our business. Competition has been based primarily on price, product availability, speed of delivery, credit availability and quality and breadth of product lines and, increasingly, is also based on the ability to tailor specific solutions to client needs. We compete with manufacturers, including manufacturers of products we sell, as well as a large number and wide variety of marketers and resellers of IT products and services. In addition, manufacturers are increasing the volume of software products distributed electronically directly to end-users and in the future will likely pay lower referral fees for sales of certain software licensing agreements sold by us. Generally, pricing is very aggressive in the industry, and we expect pricing pressures to continue. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate prices as favorable as those negotiated by our competitors or that we will be able to offset the effects of price reductions with an increase in the number of clients, higher net sales, cost reductions, greater sales of services, which are typically at higher gross margins, or otherwise. Price reductions by our competitors that we either cannot or choose not to match could result in an erosion of our market share and/or reduced sales or, to the extent we match such reductions, could result in reduced operating margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in our information technology and voice and data networks could affect our ability to service our clients and cause us to incur additional expenses. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient service to clients. Our ability to provide such services is largely dependent on the accuracy, quality and utilization of the information generated by our IT systems, which affect our ability to manage our sales, client service, distribution, inventories and accounting systems and the reliability of our voice and data networks. We depend on certain key personnel. Our future success will be largely dependent on the efforts of key management personnel. We also believe that our future success will be largely dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, sales, service and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. Further, we make a significant investment in the training of our sales account executives. Our inability to retain such personnel or to train them either rapidly enough to meet our expanding needs or in an effective manner for quickly changing market conditions could cause a decrease in the overall quality and efficiency of our sales staff, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Page 8 Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The exercise of outstanding options or any other issuance of shares by us may dilute your ownership of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded. As a result of the thin trading market for our stock, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole or the stock prices of similar companies. Without a larger float, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and, as a result, the trading prices for our common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, and we are therefore subject to continued listing requirements, including requirements with respect to the market value and number of publicly-held shares, number of stockholders, minimum bid price, number of market makers and either (i) stockholders’ equity or (ii) total market value of stock, total assets and total revenues. If we fail to satisfy one or more of the requirements, we may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. If we are delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, we do not qualify for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, and we are not able to list our common stock on another exchange, our common stock could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets”. As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences including, among others, a limited availability of market quotations for our securities and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 