ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The following factors may impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in the Company. We have had Losses and Low Earnings in Recent Periods We incurred a net loss of $15.088 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and a net loss of $10.063 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our management believes that our current 15 Table of Contents business plan will be successful and believes we will be able to limit our losses; however, our business plan is subject to current market conditions and its successful implementation is uncertain. There is no assurance that we will be successful in executing our business plan or that even if we successfully implement our business plan, we will be able to curtail our losses now or in the future. If we incur significant operating losses, our stock price may decline, perhaps significantly. Because the Nature of the Financial Services Business Involves a High Volume of Transactions, the Company Faces Significant Operational Risks We operate in many different businesses in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters, breaches of the internal control system, and compliance requirements and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that results in a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation. Additionally, the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Operations in several of our markets could be disrupted by both the evacuation of large portions of the population as well as damage and/or lack of access to our banking and operation facilities. Although we have not experienced such an occurrence to date, severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other adverse external events may occur in the future. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents A Significant Amount of our Business is Concentrated in Real Estate Lending, and Most of this Lending Involves Maryland Real Estate Approximately 18% of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial and consumer real estate development and construction loans, which are secured by the real estate being developed in each case. In addition to the risk that the market values of the real estate securing these loans may deteriorate, these loans are also subject to the development risks that the projects will not be completed in a timely manner, or according to original specifications. Real estate development and construction projects that are not completed in a timely manner, or according to original specifications, are generally less marketable than projects that are fully developed. The loans underlying such projects may be subject to greater losses in the event that the real estate collateral becomes the source of repayment. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Bank often secures its loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2008, approximately 79% of the Bank's loans have real estate as a primary, secondary, or tertiary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. We Have a High Percentage of Commercial, Commercial Real Estate, and Real Estate Acquisition and Development Loans in Relation to our Total Loans and Total Assets Our loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, and real estate acquisition and development loans in relation to our total loans and total assets. These types of loans typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result, and has resulted, in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on financial results. Current regulatory guidance suggests that institutions whose commercial real estate loans exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration risk and may be required to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Based on our commercial real estate concentration as of December 31, 2008, we may be subject to further supervisory analysis during future examinations. Although we continuously evaluate our concentration and risk management strategies, we cannot guarantee that any risk management practices we implement will be effective to prevent losses relating to our commercial real estate portfolio. Management cannot predict the extent to which this guidance will impact our operations or capital requirements. Mortgage-Banking Activities Generate a Significant Portion of our Noninterest Income A significant portion of our business involves making residential mortgage loans through our mortgage division, which accounted for approximately 47% and 30% of our noninterest income for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Real estate loan origination activity, including refinancings, is generally greater during periods of low or declining interest rates and favorable economic conditions, which had been favorably affected by relatively lower market interest rates during the past three years. However, we did experience a deterioration in market conditions during 2007 and 2008 and continued adverse changes in market conditions could have an adverse impact on our earnings through lower origination volumes. 17 Table of Contents We Face Interest Rate Risk on our Loans Held for Sale Portfolio We are exposed to interest rate risk in both our pipeline of mortgage originations (loans that have yet to close with the borrower) and in our warehouse loans (those loans that have closed with the borrower but have yet to be funded by investors). We have managed this interest rate risk through hedging strategies. We hedge a portion of our mortgage loan pipeline and warehouse utilizing forward sales of mortgage-backed securities for loans to be sold under mandatory delivery contracts. We expect that these derivative financial instruments (forward sales of mortgage-backed securities) will experience changes in fair value opposite to the change in fair value of the derivative loan commitments and our warehouse. However, the process of selling loans and use of forward sales of mortgage-backed securities to hedge interest rate risk associated with customer interest rate lock commitments involves greater risk than selling loans on an individual basis through best efforts forward delivery commitments. Hedging interest rate risk requires management to estimate the expected "fallout" (rate lock commitments with customers that do not complete the loan process). Additionally, the fair value of the hedge may not correlate precisely with the change in fair value of the rate lock commitments with the customer due to changes in market conditions, such as demand for loan products, or prices paid for differing types of loan products. Variances from management's estimates for customer fallout or market changes making the forward sale of mortgage-backed securities non-effective may result in higher volatility in our profits from selling mortgage loans originated for sale. We engage an experienced third party to assist us in managing our activities in hedging and marketing sales strategy. We Face Credit Risk Related to our Residential Mortgage Production Activities We face credit risk related to our residential mortgage production activities. Credit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or an institution to honor its contractual obligations to us, including the risk that an investor will fail to honor its obligation under mandatory delivery contracts. We manage mortgage credit risk principally by selling substantially all of the mortgage loans that we produce, limiting credit recourse to the Bank in those transactions, and by retaining high credit quality mortgages in our loan portfolio. We also limit our risk of loss on mortgage loan sales by establishing limits on activity to any one investor and by entering into contractual relationships with only those financial institutions that are approved by our Secondary Marketing Committee. The period of time between closing on a loan commitment with the borrower and funding by the investor ranges from between 15 and 90 days. We Face Risk Related to Covenants in our Loan Sales Agreements with Investors Our sales agreements with investors who buy our loans generally contain covenants which may require us to repurchase loans under certain provisions, including delinquencies, or return premiums paid by these investors should the loan be paid off early. Any loans we are required to repurchase may be considered impaired loans, with the potential for charge-offs and/or loss provision charges. The addition of these repurchased loans to our portfolio could adversely affect our earnings and asset quality ratios. There may be certain loans in our portfolio that were originated for sale, but for various reasons, are unable to be sold. These loans are transferred to our loan portfolio at fair market value. Any deterioration in value of the loan during the period held in the portfolio is charged to the allowance. We May Experience Loan Losses in Excess of the Allowance The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical loss experience in the 18 Table of Contents loan portfolios, the levels and trends in past-due and nonaccrual loans, the status of nonaccrual loans and other loans identified as having the potential for further deterioration, credit risk and industry concentrations, trends in loan volume, the effects of any changes in lending policies and procedures or underwriting standards, and a continuing evaluation of the economic environment. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if regulatory authorities require the Bank or Mariner Finance to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2008, the allowance for loan losses was $16.777 million, which represented 1.71% of outstanding loans, net of unearned income. At such date, we had nonaccruing loans totaling $38.763 million. Management actively administers its nonaccruing loans in an effort to minimize credit losses. Although management believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to nonperforming or performing loans. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in net income and capital, and could have and have had a material adverse effect on us. The Market Value of Our Securities May Decline As of December 31, 2008, we had classified 76% of our securities as available for sale pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. SFAS No. 115 requires that unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available-for-sale portfolio be "marked to market" and reflected as a separate item in stockholders' equity (net of tax) as accumulated other comprehensive income. The remaining investment securities are classified as trading in accordance with SFAS No. 115 and are stated at fair value with changes in value reflected in income. There can be no assurance that future market performance of our securities portfolio will enable us to realize income from sales of securities. Stockholders' equity will continue to reflect the unrealized gains and losses (net of tax) of these securities. There can be no assurance that the market value of our securities portfolio will not decline, causing a corresponding decline in stockholders' equity. The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta ("FHLB"). A member of the FHLB system is required to purchase stock issued by the relevant FHLB bank based on how much it borrows from the FHLB and the quality of the collateral pledged to secure that borrowing. Accordingly, we maintain investments in stock issued by the FHLB of Atlanta. In recent months, the banking industry has become concerned about the financial strength of the banks in the FHLB system, and some FHLB banks have stopped paying dividends on and redeeming FHLB stock. On January 30, 2009, the FHLB of Atlanta announced that it was deferring the declaration of a dividend on its stock for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 until it completes its year-end analysis of other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") which is critical to its net income determination. The FHLB of Atlanta stated that it anticipates a decision regarding the dividend to be made in March 2009. Accordingly, there can be no guaranty that the FHLB of Atlanta will declare future dividends. Moreover, accounting guidance indicates that an investor in FHLB stock should recognize impairment if it concludes that it is not probable that it will ultimately recover the par value of its shares. The decision of whether impairment exists is a matter of judgment that should reflect the investor's view of 19 Table of Contents an FHLB's long-term performance, which includes factors such as its operating performance, the severity and duration of declines in the market value of its net assets related to its capital stock amount, its commitment to make payments required by law or regulation and the level of such payments in relation to its operating performance, the impact of legislation and regulatory changes on the FHLB, and accordingly, on the members of the FHLB and its liquidity and funding position. After evaluating all of these considerations, we believe the par value of our FHLB stock will be recovered, but future evaluations of the above mentioned factors could result in the Bank recognizing an impairment charge. Management believes that several factors will affect the market values of our securities portfolio. These include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates or expectations of changes, the degree of volatility in the securities markets, inflation rates or expectations of inflation and the slope of the interest rate yield curve (the yield curve refers to the differences between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates; a positively sloped yield curve means shorter-term rates are lower than longer-term rates). Also, the passage of time will affect the market values of our investment securities, in that the closer they are to maturing, the closer the market price should be to par value. These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently, and management cannot predict the effect these factors may have on any specific category. Our Regulatory Expenses will Likely Increase Due to the Enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act and Related Government Programs Among other things, the EESA included a provision to increase the amount of deposits insured by FDIC to $250,000. The TLGP provides, until December 31, 2009, unlimited deposit insurance on funds in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts and certain IOLTAs and NOW accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000, as well as a 100% guarantee of the newly issued senior debt of all FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies issued between October 14, 2008 and June 30, 2009. All eligible institutions will be covered under the TLGP for the first 30 days without incurring any costs. After the initial period, participating institutions will be assessed a charge of 10 basis points per annum for the additional insured deposits and a charge of 75 basis points per annum for guaranteed senior unsecured debt. We elected to participate in both portions of the TLGP, so we expect to incur additional regulatory fees associated with our participation. Customer Concern about Deposit Insurance May Cause a Decrease in Deposits Held at the Bank With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from the Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with us is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Our Funding Sources May Prove Insufficient to Replace Deposits and Support our Future Growth We rely on customer deposits, advances from the FHLB, and lines of credit at other financial institutions to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained and/or our cost of funds will increase if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if financing necessary to accommodate future growth is not available at favorable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We Currently Hold a Significant Amount of Bank Owned Life Insurance We currently hold a significant amount of Bank Owned Life Insurance ("BOLI") on key employees and executives that have cash surrender values of $36.436 million as of December 31, 2008. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of various insurance companies to pay benefits in the event of the death of an insured employee, or return the cash surrender value to us in the event of our need for liquidity. We continuously monitor the financial strength of the various insurance companies with whom we carry policies. However, there is no assurance that one or more of these companies will not experience a decline in financial strength which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. Additionally, should we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity needs, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value as well as penalties for early termination of the insurance contracts. These events would have a negative impact on our earnings. We Currently Have a Significant Amount of Deferred Tax Assets We currently have a significant amount of deferred tax assets ($26.057 million) as of December 31, 2008. The analysis of the realization of deferred tax assets requires making various forecasts and assumptions, including future flows of taxable income. Actual results may differ from forecasts and assumptions, which could cause a write down of our deferred tax assets and have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Economic Conditions and Monetary Policy will Impact our Earnings and Financial Condition Our operating results will depend to a great extent upon the rate differentials between the yields earned on our loans, securities and other earning assets and the rates paid on our deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rate differentials are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, in particular the Federal Reserve Board. The makeup of our loan and deposit portfolios, in particular, determines our sensitivity to these factors. At December 31, 2008, we had a one year cumulative interest sensitivity gap of $(59.830) million. See Item 7A of Part II of this report. Like other depository institutions, the Bank is affected by the monetary policies implemented by the Federal Reserve Board and other federal entities. A primary instrument of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board is the restriction or expansion of the money supply through open market operations, including the purchase and sale of government securities and the adjustment of reserve requirements. These actions may at times result in significant fluctuations in interest rates, which could have adverse effects on our operations. In particular, our ability to make loans, attract deposits and realize gains on the sale of residential mortgage loans, as well as public demand for loans, could be adversely affected. See Item 1 of Part I of this report under the caption—"Business—Economic Monetary Policies and Economic Controls". The current state of the economy and the capital markets increases the possibility of adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. Continued economic adversity could impair our loan customers' financial positions and operating results and affect their ability to repay loans, which could, in turn, harm our operating results. Additionally, the capital market deterioration could adversely affect our own securities portfolio and our operating results. Continued adversity in the capital markets could impact our ability to raise capital and reduce our volume of new investments. First Mariner's Ability to Pay Cash Dividends is Limited Holders of shares of First Mariner common stock are entitled to dividends if declared by First Mariner's Board of directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. In general, future dividend policy is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon a number of factors, 21 Table of Contents including the future earnings, capital requirements, regulatory constraints, and First Mariner's financial condition, as well as that of the Bank and Mariner Finance. Although the Board of Directors has declared cash dividends in the past, it has discontinued such payments to conserve cash and capital resources, and does not intend to declare cash dividends until current earnings are sufficient to generate adequate internal capital to support growth. Our current ability to pay dividends is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Both federal and state laws impose restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends. Federal law prohibits the payment of a dividend by an insured depository institution if the depository institution is considered "undercapitalized" or if the payment of the dividend would make the institution "undercapitalized." For a Maryland commercial bank, dividends may be paid out of undivided profits or, with the prior approval of the Maryland Commissioner, from surplus in excess of 100% of required capital stock. If, however, the surplus of a Maryland bank is less than 100% of its required capital stock, then cash dividends may not be paid in excess of 90% of net earnings. First Mariner's ability to pay dividends is further subject to its ability to make payments of interest under junior subordinated debentures due through 2035 held by our statutory trusts Mariner Capital Trust II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII (collectively, "the Trusts"). These payments are necessary to fund the distributions that the Trusts each must pay to holders of its trust preferred securities (collectively, the "Mariner Trust Preferred Securities"). The terms of debentures permit First Mariner to defer interest payments for up to 20 quarterly periods. Such a deferral is not an event of default, but the interest continues to accrue and First Mariner is prohibited from paying any dividends on its common stock for so long as interest is deferred. First Mariner is also prohibited from paying any dividends on its common stock if it is in default under the debentures. On December 22, 2008, First Mariner announced its election to defer interest payments on the debentures relating to the Trust Preferred Securities beginning with the January 7, 2009 payment. This deferment does not constitute an event of default on the securities; however, the cumulative interest on these securities must be paid prior to the declaration of any stock dividends. Finally, First Mariner and the Bank have entered into regulatory agreements with our regulators which, among other things, require us to seek prior regulatory approval before the Bank pays dividends to First Mariner and/or before First Mariner pays dividends on its common stock. Our Management Controls a Significant Percentage of First Mariner's Common Stock At December 31, 2008, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 2,010,787 shares of First Mariner common stock (amount includes shares that could be acquired pursuant to immediately exercisable stock options), or 28% of our outstanding shares of common stock plus exercisable options. Edwin F. Hale, Sr., who is our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and largest stockholder, beneficially owns 1,457,316 shares of common stock (with options), or 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock plus exercisable options as of December 31, 2008. Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders. First Mariner's Common Stock is Not Heavily Traded The average daily trading volume of shares of First Mariner common stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market for the previous three months was approximately 17,000 shares. Thus, First Mariner common stock is not heavily traded and can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. Factors such as our financial results, the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors, and various factors affecting the banking industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of First Mariner common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for the common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years and months, 22 Table of Contents the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, First Mariner stockholders may not be able to trade large blocks of shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. First Mariner Common Stock is Not Insured Investments in the shares of First Mariner common stock are not deposits and are not insured against loss by the government. We Operate in a Competitive Market We operate in a competitive environment, competing for deposits, loans and customers with commercial banks, thrifts, finance companies, and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market, Internet-based deposit intermediaries, mutual funds, and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage-banking firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, and other financial intermediaries. Many of the financial intermediaries operating in our market area offer certain services, such as trust, investment, and international banking services, which we do not offer. In addition, companies with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits, and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers. Under GLBA, a bank holding company can elect, subject to certain qualifications, to become a "financial holding company". GLBA provides that a financial holding company may engage in a full range of financial activities, including insurance and securities sales and underwriting activities, and real estate development, with new expedited notice procedures. First Mariner Bancorp operated as a financial holding company since 2002, but recently withdrew that election. The termination of this financial holding company status may increase the competition we face in our market areas from bank holding companies that are also or may in the future become financial holding companies and from other entities that engage, or in the future may engage, in activities in which bank holding companies that are not also financial holding companies may not engage. Finally, our continued growth and profitability will depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled managerial, marketing, and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the banking industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The FDIC Will Likely Require the Bank to Pay Restitution and a Penalty During 2009 and to Implement and Enhance Certain Controls The FDIC is currently investigating whether the Bank engaged in discriminatory lending practices in 2005, 2006 and/or 2007 and in deceptive lending practices in 2006 and 2007. We anticipate that the FDIC will require the Bank to pay restitution to certain borrowers and pay a civil money penalty. In addition, we anticipate that the FDIC will require the Bank to implement and enhance certain policies and procedures related to the Bank's lending practices and hire an independent consultant to assist with these matters, which will increase our compliance costs and other expenses. We expect that these requirements will be finalized during 2009, but no assurance can be given as to when this matter will be resolved. Our Lending Activities Subject us to the Risk of Environmental Liabilities A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there 23 Table of Contents is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Contracts With Our Officers May Discourage a Takeover or Adversely Affect Our Takeover Value We have entered into change in control agreements with nine of our officers. These agreements provide for a payment to each officer of a multiple (ranging from 1 to 2.99) of his or her salary and bonus upon the occurrence of either a change in control that results in the loss of employment or a significant change in his or her employment. Thus, we may be required to make significant payments in the event that the rights under these agreements are triggered by a change in control. As a result, these contracts may discourage a takeover, or adversely affect the consideration payable to stockholders in the event of a takeover. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and Maryland Law May Discourage a Corporate Takeover Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation ("Articles") and Amended and Restated Bylaws ("Bylaws") contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the Board of Directors to deal with attempts to acquire control of the Company. These provisions provide for the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes; directors of each class serve for staggered three year periods. The Articles also provide for supermajority voting provisions for the approval of certain business combinations. Maryland law also contains anti-takeover provisions that apply to First Mariner. The Maryland Business Combination Act generally prohibits, subject to certain limited exceptions, corporations from being involved in any "business combination" (defined as a variety of transactions, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) with any "interested shareholder" for a period of five years following the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. An interested shareholder is defined generally as a person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock or who is an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question and after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock. The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act applies to acquisitions of "control shares", which, subject to certain exceptions, are shares the acquisition of which entitle the holder, directly or indirectly, to exercise or direct the exercise of the voting power of shares of stock of the corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more, but less than one-third of all voting power; one-third or more, but less than a majority of all voting power or a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares have limited voting rights. Although these provisions do not preclude a takeover, they may have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt which would not be approved by First Mariner's Board of Directors, but pursuant to which stockholders might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction might not 24 Table of Contents have the opportunity to do so. Such provisions will also render the removal of our Board of Directors and of management more difficult and, therefore, may serve to perpetuate current management. Further, such provisions could potentially adversely affect the market price of First Mariner's common stock. We Operate under Regulatory Agreements with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, FDIC, and the Maryland Banking Commissioner We have entered into agreements with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, FDIC, and the Maryland Banking Commissioner. The material terms of these agreements require us to: (i) formulate a plan for the reduction and collection of adversely classified loans, nonaccrual loans, and delinquent loans and otherwise improve our asset quality; (ii) develop a policy for managing the real estate we acquire by foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure; (iii) periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan and lease losses; (iv) develop a plan for systematically reducing and monitoring our residential real estate acquisition, development, and construction loan portfolio; (v) develop and implement a profit and budget plan to improve our operating performance; (vi) develop a capital plan to maintain "well capitalized" status; (vii) submit plans to reduce parent company leverage; and (viii) submit plans to improve enterprise-wide risk management and effectiveness of internal audit programs. We have also agreed to provide the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond advance notice involving significant capital transactions. These agreements will subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny and may have an adverse impact on our business operations. Failure to comply with the provisions of these agreements may result in more restrictive actions from our regulators, including more secure and restrictive enforcement actions. We may be Adversely Affected by Other Recent Legislation As discussed above, the GLBA repealed restrictions on banks affiliating with securities firms and it also permitted bank holding companies that become financial holding companies to engage in additional financial activities, including insurance and securities underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking, and insurance company portfolio investment activities that are currently not permitted for bank holding companies. First Mariner is not currently a financial holding company. This law may increase the competition we face from larger banks and other companies, including bank holding companies that have elected to become financial holding companies. It is not possible to predict the full effect that this law will have on us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management of publicly traded companies to perform an annual assessment of their internal controls over financial reporting and to report on whether the system is effective as of the end of the company's fiscal year. Disclosure of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls could cause an unfavorable impact to stockholder value by affecting the market value of First Mariner common stock. The Patriot Act requires certain financial institutions, such as the Bank, to maintain and prepare additional records and reports that are designed to assist the government's efforts to combat terrorism. This law includes sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and required additional regulations, including, among other things, standards for verifying client identification when opening an account and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. If we fail to comply with this law, we could be exposed to adverse publicity as well as fines and penalties assessed by regulatory agencies. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents 