ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS We are subject to restrictions and conditions of a Cease and Desist Order issued by the FDIC and the Commissioner of the Maryland Division of Financial Regulation (the "Commissioner") ("September Order"), and agreements with the FRB ("FRB Agreement" and "New FRB Agreement") and have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with these enforcement actions. The FDIC and the Commissioner have issued Cease and Desist Orders against the Bank and the Company has entered into the FRB Agreement and the New FRB Agreement. The September Order contains a number of significant directives, including higher capital requirements, requirements to reduce the level of our classified assets, operating restrictions, and restrictions on dividend payments by 18 Table of Contents the Bank. These restrictions may impede our ability to operate our own business. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the September Order or the New FRB Agreement, the appropriate regulatory authority could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions and monetary penalties. We could also be directed to seek a merger partner. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the enforcement actions, and we will incur ongoing expenses attributable to compliance with the terms of the enforcement actions. Although we do not expect it, it is possible regulatory compliance expenses related to the enforcement actions could have a material adverse impact on us in the future. In addition, our ability to independently make certain changes to our business is restricted by the terms of the September Order and the New FRB Agreement, which could negatively impact the scope and flexibility of our business activities. While we believe that we will be able to take actions that will result in the September Order and the New FRB Agreement being terminated in the future, we cannot guarantee that such actions will result in the termination of the September Order and/or the New FRB Agreement. Further, the imposition of the September Order and the New FRB Agreement may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employees. For more information on the September Order and the New FRB Agreement, see "Capital Resources" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank's capital levels were not sufficient to achieve compliance with the higher capital requirements we must meet by June 30, 2010, nor were they, on a consolidated basis, sufficient to satisfy the FRB's minimum capital requirements. In the September Order, the FDIC and the Commissioner directed the Bank to raise its Tier 1 leverage and total risk-based capital ratios to 6.5% and 10%, respectively, by March 31, 2010 and to 7.5% and 11%, respectively, by June 30, 2010. At December 31, 2009, we did not meet these requirements and would have needed approximately $8.200 million in additional capital, based on assets at such date, to meet both of the March requirements and approximately $15.000 million in additional capital to meet both of the June requirements. First Mariner currently does not have any capital available to invest in the Bank and any further increases to our allowance for loan losses and operating losses would negatively impact our capital levels and make it more difficult to achieve the capital levels directed by the FDIC and the Commissioner. When combined with the assets and liabilities that we are selling or of which we are otherwise disposing, the amount of capital we may raise in any stock offerings (see "Subsequent Events" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K) may not be sufficient to achieve and maintain compliance with the capital requirements mandated by our regulators. The failure to meet these capital requirements could result in further action by our regulators. Additionally, on November 24, 2009, First Mariner's primary regulator, the FRB, required the Company to enter into the New FRB Agreement. The New FRB Agreement required the Company to submit a written plan by January 25, 2010 to maintain sufficient capital at the holding company level, such that First Mariner satisfies the FRB's requirements to be considered "adequately capitalized." To be considered adequately capitalized, First Mariner's consolidated Tier 1 capital to average assets, Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and total capital to risk-weighted assets ratios must be at least 4.0%, 4.0% and 8.0%, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the Company's consolidated capital ratios did not meet the FRB's requirements to be considered "adequately capitalized." If the Company does not satisfy the requirements of an FRB approved written plan, the FRB could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties, as well as further operating restrictions. 19 Table of Contents If the amount of capital we raise in stock offerings and other actions we are taking to reduce assets is insufficient to satisfy capital requirements, we may need to take additional actions to reduce the amounts of our assets and liabilities or we may need to raise additional capital through a share issuance in the future that could dilute your ownership interest. Should we in the future need to raise additional capital, we might seek to do so through one or more offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into common stock, or rights to acquire such securities of our common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time and on our financial performance. Our stock price has declined in recent periods and was $ 0.95 at December 31, 2009. Moreover, the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets have reached unprecedented levels, producing downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for numerous issuers. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, and if our stock price remains at its current level, we may be unable to raise additional capital, or we may be able to raise capital only at prices that would be unfavorable and dilutive to our shareholders. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected, and our banking regulators may subject the Bank and the Company to further regulatory enforcement action. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock, particularly those who are not able to or choose not to participate in such additional issuances. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro-rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, our shareholders may not be permitted to invest in future issuances of our common stock and as a result will be diluted. See "Subsequent Events" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K for additional information on shares of our common stock that may be issued in our current rights offering and that are expected to be issued in the Exchange. (See description of the Exchange in "Subsequent Events" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K.) We have taken actions, and may take additional actions, to help us meet immediate needs for capital, including reducing our assets and liabilities. In December, 2009, we completed the sale of our consumer finance company subsidiary, Mariner Finance, for a purchase price of approximately $10.459 million. We received $8.734 million in cash at closing and a 5% ownership stake in the new Mariner Finance entity. Under terms of the sale, $1.1 million was placed in an escrow account to be paid to First Mariner no later than 18 months after the closing, after deducting any indemnification claims. While this transaction provided First Mariner with $8.734 million in cash to invest in the Bank to increase the Bank's capital, we will realize only 5% of any future income generated by Mariner Finance. During 2009, we realized a net loss of $9.060 million (including the loss on sale of $11.110 million) from the operations of Mariner Finance. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we earned $1.721 million and $1.640 million of net income from our investment in Mariner Finance. We have also identified certain Bank branches that we intend to close or sell in 2010. The successful completion of these actions is expected to reduce overhead costs by approximately $3.0 million and support our strategy of prudently reducing assets and liabilities. Total aggregate deposits in the branches identified for sale and closure are approximately $50.000 million. The Bank has not entered into any agreement to sell any branch office and no guarantee can be made that any such agreement will be entered into and if such agreement is entered into, whether such sale will be consummated. The approval of the FDIC and the Commissioner will also need to be obtained by any acquirer before buying any of our branch offices. While we anticipate that such approvals would be received, there can be no guarantee that such approvals will be received. While these branch sales, if completed, will reduce our assets and liabilities and thereby increase our Bank capital ratios, we expect 20 Table of Contents that our net income in the future will be reduced as a result of the loss of income generated by these branches. The Company and the Bank are deemed to be in "troubled condition" within the meaning of federal statutes and regulations. The Company and Bank are deemed to be in "troubled condition" within the meaning of federal statutes and regulations. As a result, certain limitations and regulatory requirements apply to the Company and the Bank with respect to future changes to senior executive management and directors and the payment of, or the agreement to pay, certain severance payments to officers, directors, and employees. The Bank must also comply with specified recordkeeping requirements in connection with transactions involving certain securities contracts, commodities contracts, repurchase agreements, and other "Qualified Financial Contracts." Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial viability. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans, and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta ("FHLB") has reduced our line of credit from $202.21 million to $107.00 million, our outstanding balance as of December 31, 2009. The FRB has also notified the Bank that it will permit the Bank to draw on its line of credit with the Federal Reserve Bank only in limited circumstances and for a short duration. Factors that could further detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. As part of the September Order, we are not allowed to purchase brokered deposits without first obtaining a regulatory waiver. We are also required to comply with restrictions on deposit rates that we may offer. These factors could significantly affect our ability to fund normal operations. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. At December 31, 2009, management considered the Bank's liquidity level to be sufficient for the purposes of meeting the Bank's cash flow requirements. We have elected to defer the payment of interest on $73.724 million in face amount of outstanding trust preferred securities issued by trust subsidiaries of our holding company and expect to continue to defer the payment of interest for the foreseeable future. Though we have deferred the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures related to the trust preferred securities, we continue to accrue interest expense related to the trust preferred securities. First Mariner recognized interest expense of $3.127 million and $4.640 million on the trust preferred securities during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Under the terms of the subordinated debentures, our deferral of interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters does not constitute an event of default. During the deferral period, the deferred interest payments continue to accrue. To the extent applicable law permits interest on interest, the deferred interest payments also accrue interest at the rates specified in the corresponding indentures, compounded quarterly. All of the deferred interest and the compound interest are due in full at the end of the applicable deferral period. If we fail to pay the deferred and compound interest at the end of the deferral period, each trustee of the various trusts, or in most cases the holders of 25% of the outstanding principal amount of any issue of trust preferred securities, would have the right, after any applicable grace period, to declare an event of default. The occurrence of an event of default on the 21 Table of Contents subordinated debentures would entitle the trustees and holders of the trust preferred securities to exercise various remedies, including demanding immediate payment in full of the entire outstanding principal amount of the subordinated debentures. Currently we have no cash available at First Mariner to resume the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures, and the September Order prohibits our use of the proceeds from any stock offerings for this purpose. Accordingly, our ability to resume the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures will depend on the Bank's ability to generate earnings and pay dividends to First Mariner. In addition, the terms of the September Order currently prohibits the payment of dividends by the Bank without regulatory approval. As a result, if by January 2014 the September Order is not terminated, or if we do not achieve sufficient profitability for the Bank so that our regulators would grant approval for the Bank to pay dividends, we will be unable to resume the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures. Even if the Bank is able to resume paying dividends, we cannot be assured that the amount of dividends would be sufficient to pay the entire amount of interest due under the subordinated debentures at the end of the deferral period. See "Subsequent Events" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K for information regarding the subsequent event related to the Trust Preferred Securities. We have had losses in recent periods. We incurred a net loss of $22.284 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, including a one-time charge of $11.110 million relating to the sale of Mariner Finance. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred a net loss of $15.088 million. Our earnings in these periods have been hurt by adverse economic conditions, including falling home prices, increasing foreclosures, and increasing unemployment, in our markets, and our losses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 included $11.660 million and $10.856 million, respectively, of provisions for loan losses. Our ability to return to profitability will depend on whether we are able to reduce credit losses in the future, which will depend, in part, on whether economic conditions in our markets improve. Our management believes that our current business plan will be successful and believes we will be able to limit our losses; however, our business plan is subject to current market conditions and its successful implementation is uncertain. There is no assurance that we will be successful in executing our business plan or that even if we successfully implement our business plan, we will be able to curtail our losses now or in the future. If we continue to incur significant operating losses, our stock price may further decline. Even if we raise enough capital in the current offering (See "Subsequent Events" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K) to allow us to meet the Bank and consolidated capital levels mandated by our regulators, if we incur further operating losses, we may in the future need to raise additional capital to maintain Bank and consolidated capital levels that meet or exceed the levels mandated by our regulators. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, 22 Table of Contents resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. The recent decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which the loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures, or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss allowances in future periods. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by regulatory authorities, as part of their examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance after a review of the information available at the time of their examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to $11.639 million, or 1.31% of total loans outstanding and 17.5% of nonperforming assets ($57.429 million) and loans past-due 90 days or more and accruing ($9.224 million), as of December 31, 2009. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2009 may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would decrease our earnings. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding loan balances exceeding $833.000 million that were performing according to their original terms. However, the deterioration of one or more of these performing loans could result in a significant increase in our nonperforming loans and our provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations. We have a high percentage of commercial real estate and real estate construction loans in relation to our total loans. At December 31, 2009, we had $339.794 million in loans secured by commercial real estate and $146.869 million in real estate construction loans, which included $47.379 million in residential construction loans and $99.490 million for the construction of commercial properties. Commercial real estate loans and construction loans represented 38.1% and 16.5%, respectively, of our net loan portfolio. While commercial real estate and construction loans are generally more interest rate sensitive and carry higher yields than do residential mortgage loans, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers, and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property's value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Current regulatory guidance suggests that institutions whose commercial real estate loans exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration risk and may be required to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Based on our commercial real estate concentration as of December 31, 2009, we may be subject to further supervisory analysis during future examinations. Although we continuously evaluate our concentration and risk management strategies, we cannot guarantee that any risk management practices we implement will be effective to prevent losses relating to our commercial real estate portfolio. Management cannot predict the extent to which this guidance will impact our operations or capital requirements. Mortgage banking activities generate a significant portion of our noninterest income. A significant portion of our business involves originating residential mortgage loans through our mortgage division, which accounted for approximately 57.0% and 54.6% of our noninterest income for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Real estate loan origination activity, including refinancing, is generally greater during periods of low or declining interest rates and favorable economic conditions. Continued adverse changes in market conditions could have an adverse impact on our earnings through lower origination volumes. 23 Table of Contents We face interest rate risk on our loans held for sale portfolio. We are exposed to interest rate risk in both our pipeline of mortgage originations (loans that have yet to close with the borrower) and in our warehouse loans (those loans that have closed with the borrower but have yet to be funded by investors). We have managed this interest rate risk through hedging strategies. We hedge a portion of our mortgage loan pipeline and warehouse utilizing forward sales of mortgage-backed securities. We expect that these derivative financial instruments (forward sales of mortgage-backed securities) will experience changes in fair value opposite to the change in fair value of the derivative loan commitments and our warehouse. However, the process of selling loans and the use of forward sales of mortgage-backed securities to hedge interest rate risk associated with customer interest rate lock commitments involves greater risk than selling loans on an individual basis through best efforts forward delivery commitments. Hedging interest rate risk requires management to estimate the expected "fallout" (rate lock commitments with customers that do not complete the loan process). Additionally, the fair value of the hedge may not correlate precisely with the change in fair value of the rate lock commitments with the customer due to changes in market conditions, such as demand for loan products, or prices paid for differing types of loan products. Variances from management's estimates for customer fallout or market changes making the forward sale of mortgage-backed securities ineffective may result in higher volatility in our profits from selling mortgage loans originated for sale. We engage an experienced third party to assist us in managing our activities in hedging and marketing sales strategy. We face credit risk related to our residential mortgage production activities. We face credit risk related to our residential mortgage production activities. Credit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or an institution to honor its contractual obligations to us. We manage mortgage credit risk principally by selling substantially all of the mortgage loans that we produce, limiting credit recourse to the Bank in those transactions, and by retaining high credit quality mortgages in our loan portfolio. We also limit our risk of loss on mortgage loan sales by establishing limits on activity to any one investor and by entering into contractual relationships with only those financial institutions that are approved by our Secondary Marketing Committee. The period of time between closing on a loan commitment with the borrower and funding by the investor ranges from between 15 and 90 days. We face risk related to covenants in our loan sales agreements with investors. Our sales agreements with investors who buy our loans generally contain covenants which may require us to repurchase loans under certain provisions, including delinquencies, or return premiums paid by these investors should the loan be paid off early. Any loans we are required to repurchase may be considered impaired loans, with the potential for charge-offs and/or loss provision charges. The addition of these repurchased loans to our portfolio could adversely affect our earnings and asset quality ratios. There may be certain loans in our portfolio that were originated for sale, but for various reasons, are unable to be sold. These loans are transferred to our loan portfolio at fair value. Any deterioration in value of the loan during the period held in the portfolio is charged to the allowance. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely impact the value of our investments, financial performance, and capital. We maintain an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, mortgage-backed securities and pooled trust preferred collateralized debt obligations. The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the issuer, such as adverse changes in business climate and lack of liquidity for the resale of certain investment securities. As of 24 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, we had $28.275 million, representing 72.5% of our securities portfolio, classified as available for sale pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") guidance. Unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available-for-sale ("AFS") portfolio are "marked to market" and reflected as a separate item in stockholders' equity (net of tax) as accumulated other comprehensive income. The remaining investment securities are classified as trading and are stated at fair value with changes in value reflected in income. There can be no assurance that future market performance of our securities portfolio will enable us to realize income from sales of securities. Stockholders' equity will continue to reflect the unrealized gains and losses (net of tax) of these securities. There can be no assurance that the market value of our securities portfolio will not decline, causing a corresponding decline in stockholders' equity. The Bank is a member of the FHLB. A member of the FHLB system is required to purchase stock issued by the relevant FHLB bank based on how much it borrows from the FHLB and the quality of the collateral pledged to secure that borrowing. Included in our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2009 is $7.869 million in capital stock of the FHLB. The FHLB is experiencing a potential capital shortfall, has suspended its quarterly cash dividend, and could possibly require its members, including First Mariner, to make additional capital investments in the FHLB. There can be no guarantee that the FHLB will declare future dividends. In order to avail itself of correspondent banking services offered by the FHLB, we must remain a member of the FHLB. If the FHLB were to cease operations, or if we were required to write-off our investment in the FHLB, our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We periodically, but not less than quarterly, evaluate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. We may be required to record additional impairment charges if investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other than temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI"), which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. Accounting guidance indicates that an investor in FHLB stock should recognize impairment if it concludes that it is not probable that it will ultimately recover the par value of its shares. The decision of whether impairment exists is a matter of judgment that should reflect the investor's analysis of the FHLB's long-term performance, which includes factors such as its operating performance, the severity and duration of declines in the market value of its net assets related to its capital stock amount, its commitment to make payments required by law or regulation and the level of such payments in relation to its operating performance, the impact of legislation and regulatory changes on the FHLB, and accordingly, on the members of the FHLB and its liquidity and funding position. After evaluating all of these considerations, we believe the par value of our FHLB stock will be recovered, but future evaluations of the above mentioned factors could result in the Bank recognizing an impairment charge. Management believes that several factors will affect the market values of our securities portfolio. These include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates or expectations of changes, the degree of volatility in the securities markets, inflation rates or expectations of inflation, and the slope of the interest rate yield curve (the yield curve refers to the differences between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates; a positively sloped yield curve means shorter-term rates are lower than longer-term rates). Also, the passage of time will affect the market values of our investment securities, in that the closer they are to maturing, the closer the market price should be to par value. These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently, and management cannot predict the effect these factors may have on any specific category. 25 Table of Contents Negative conditions in the general economy and financial services industry may limit our access to additional funding and adversely impact liquidity. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market down turn or adverse regulatory action against it. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are nonspecific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the DIF. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. The FDIC made further refinements to its risk-based assessment that were effective April 1, 2009 and that effectively made the range seven to 77.5 basis points. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounted to 5 basis points on each institution's assets minus Tier one (core) capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution's assessment base. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $638,000. The FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will negatively impact our earnings. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring that all institutions prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. This prepayment was due on December 30, 2009. However, the FDIC may exempt certain institutions from the prepayment requirement if the FDIC determines that the prepayment would adversely affect the safety and soundness of the institution. We have been granted an exemption to this prepayment requirement. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited. Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to dividends if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. In general, future dividend policy is subject to the discretion of the board of directors and will depend upon our future earnings, capital requirements, regulatory constraints, and our financial condition, as well as that of the Bank. Although the board of directors has declared cash dividends in the past, it has discontinued such payments to conserve cash and capital resources and does not intend to declare cash dividends until current earnings are sufficient to generate adequate internal capital to support growth. Our current ability to pay dividends is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Both federal and state laws impose restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends. Federal law prohibits the payment of a dividend by an insured depository institution if the depository institution is considered "undercapitalized" or if the payment of the dividend would make the institution "undercapitalized." For a Maryland commercial bank, dividends may be paid out of undivided profits or, with the prior approval of the Maryland Commissioner, from surplus in excess of 100% of required capital stock. If, 26 Table of Contents however, the surplus of a Maryland bank is less than 100% of its required capital stock, then cash dividends may not be paid in excess of 90% of net earnings. Our ability to pay dividends is further subject to our ability to make payments of interest under junior subordinated debentures due through 2035 held by our statutory trusts Mariner Capital Trust II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII (collectively, the "Trusts"). These payments are necessary to fund the distributions that the Trusts each must pay to holders of its trust preferred securities (collectively, the "Trust Preferred Securities"). The terms of debentures permit us to defer interest payments for up to 20 quarterly periods. We have elected to defer interest payments on the debentures, beginning with the January 2009 payments. This deferment is permitted by the terms of the debentures and does not constitute an event of default thereunder. Interest on the debentures and dividends on the related Trust Preferred Securities continue to accrue and will have to be paid in full prior to the expiration of the deferral period, which may not exceed 20 consecutive quarters, and prior to the declaration of any dividends. Finally, First Mariner and the Bank have entered into regulatory agreements with our regulators which, among other things, require us to seek prior regulatory approval before the Bank pays dividends to First Mariner and/or before First Mariner pays dividends on its common stock. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We rely on customer deposits, advances from the FHLB, and lines of credit at other financial institutions to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained and/or our cost of funds will increase if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if financing necessary to accommodate future growth is not available at favorable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. We currently hold a significant amount of bank owned life insurance. We currently hold a significant amount of bank owned life insurance ("BOLI") on key employees and executives that have cash surrender values of $34.773 million as of December 31, 2009. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of various insurance companies to pay benefits in the event of the death of an insured employee, or return the cash surrender value to us in the event of our need for liquidity. We continuously monitor the financial strength of the various insurance companies with whom we carry policies. However, there is no assurance that one or more of these companies will not experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. Additionally, should we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity needs, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value as well as penalties for early termination of the insurance contracts. These events would have a negative impact on our earnings. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest 27 Table of Contents rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a rapidly changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact shareholders' equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including changes that may restrict our ability to foreclose on single-family home loans and offer overdraft protection. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or laws could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority, and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New legislation proposed by Congress may give bankruptcy courts the power to reduce the increasing number of home foreclosures by giving bankruptcy judges the authority to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower's payments. Property owners would be allowed to keep their property while working out their debts. Other similar bills placing additional temporary moratoriums on foreclosure sales or otherwise modifying foreclosure procedures to the benefit of borrowers and the detriment of lenders may be enacted by either Congress or the State of Maryland in the future. These laws may further restrict our collection efforts on one-to-four single-family mortgage loans. Additional legislation proposed or under consideration in Congress would give current debit and credit card holders the chance to opt out of an overdraft protection program and limit overdraft fees, which could result in additional operational costs and a reduction in our noninterest income. Further, our regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. In this regard, banking regulators are considering additional regulations governing compensation, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. On June 17, 2009, the Obama Administration published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan that is intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system. The President's plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on the Company and the Bank. The reform plan proposes the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the final legislation may differ significantly from the legislation proposed by the Administration, we cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. We face significant operational risks. We operate in many different businesses in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons 28 Table of Contents outside of the Company and the Bank, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters, breaches of the internal control system, and compliance requirements and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that results in a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems, or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation. Additionally, the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue, and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Operations in several of our markets could be disrupted by both the evacuation of large portions of the population as well as damage and/or lack of access to our banking and operation facilities. Although we have not experienced such an occurrence to date, severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other adverse external events may occur in the future. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our management controls a significant percentage of our common stock. At December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 1,844,780 shares of our common stock (amount includes shares that could be acquired pursuant to immediately exercisable stock options), or 26.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock plus exercisable options. Edwin F. Hale, Sr., who is our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and largest stockholder, beneficially owns 1,451,483 shares of common stock, including exercisable options to purchase common stock, or 20.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock, including exercisable options to purchase common stock as of December 31, 2009. Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders. See "Subsequent Events" in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K for additional information on shares of all common stock that are expected to be issued in the Exchange. 29 Table of Contents Contracts with our officers may discourage a takeover or adversely affect our takeover value. We have entered into change in control agreements with four of our officers. These agreements provide for a payment to each officer of a multiple (ranging from 1 to 2.99) of his or her salary and bonus upon the occurrence of either a change in control that results in the loss of employment or a significant change in his or her employment. Thus, we may be required to make significant payments in the event that the rights under these agreements are triggered by a change in control. As a result, these contracts may discourage a takeover, or adversely affect the consideration payable to stockholders in the event of a takeover. Notwithstanding the foregoing, because the Company and the bank are considered to be in "troubled condition" for regulatory purposes, payments made under any change of control agreement are subject to certain regulatory restrictions and limitations. The Company and the Bank must apply for and receive the approval of the FRB and the FDIC, respectively, in order to make payments under these agreements. See "The Company and the Bank are deemed to be in troubled condition" above. Our Articles and Bylaws and Maryland law may discourage a corporate takeover. Our Articles and Amended and Restated Bylaws ("Bylaws") contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the board of directors to deal with attempts to acquire control of the Company. These provisions provide for the classification of our board of directors into three classes; directors of each class serve for staggered three year periods. The Articles also provide for supermajority voting provisions for the approval of certain business combinations. Maryland law also contains anti-takeover provisions that apply to us. The Maryland Business Combination Act generally prohibits, subject to certain limited exceptions, corporations from being involved in any "business combination" (defined as a variety of transactions, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, asset transfer, or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) with any "interested shareholder" for a period of five years following the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. An interested shareholder is defined generally as a person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock or who is an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question and after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock. The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act applies to acquisitions of "control shares," which, subject to certain exceptions, are shares the acquisition of which entitle the holder, directly or indirectly, to exercise or direct the exercise of the voting power of shares of stock of the corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more, but less than one-third of all voting power; one-third or more, but less than a majority of all voting power or a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares have limited voting rights. Although these provisions do not preclude a takeover, they may have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt which would not be approved by our board of directors, but pursuant to which stockholders might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction might not have the opportunity to do so. Such provisions will also render the removal of our board of directors and of management more difficult and, therefore, may serve to perpetuate current management. Further, such provisions could potentially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global financial markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values, and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry, and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices, increasing foreclosures, and increasing unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, these efforts may not succeed in restoring industry, economic, or market conditions and may result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including First Mariner, are numerous and include (i) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (ii) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (iii) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (iv) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (v) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependant on the economy in the Bank's market area. First Mariner Bank's primary market area for its core banking operations consists of central Maryland and portions of Maryland's eastern shore. Because of the Bank's concentration of business activities in its market area, our financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in the Bank's market area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism, and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures, or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Maryland could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. We currently have a significant amount of deferred tax assets. We had $28.214 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009. The analysis of the realization of deferred tax assets requires making various forecasts and assumptions, including future flows of taxable income. Actual results may differ from forecasts and assumptions, which could cause a write-down of our deferred tax assets and have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents We could, as a result of a stock offering or future trading activity in our common stock, experience an "ownership change" for tax purposes that could cause us to permanently lose a portion of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets. The completion of any stock offering could cause us to experience an "ownership change" as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Even if these transactions do not cause us to experience an "ownership change," these transactions materially increase the risk that we could experience an "ownership change" in the future. As a result, issuances or sales of common stock or other securities in the future (including common stock issued in the stock offering), or certain other direct or indirect changes in ownership, could result in an "ownership change" under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In the event an "ownership change" were to occur, we could realize a permanent loss or a portion of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets as a result of limitations on certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes, including, for example, losses on existing nonperforming assets. The amount of the permanent loss would depend on the size of the annual limitation (which is in part a function of our market capitalization at the time of an ownership change) and the applicable carryforward period (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a period of 20 years). Any permanent loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have not established a valuation allowance against our U.S. federal deferred tax assets of December 31, 2009, as we believed, based on our analysis as of that date, that it was more likely than not that all of these assets would be realized. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation's net operating losses, certain recognized built-in losses, and other carryovers after an "ownership change" occurs. An "ownership change" is generally a greater than 50 percentage point increase by certain "5% shareholders" during the testing period, which is generally the three year-period ending on the transaction date. Upon an "ownership change," a corporation generally is subject to an annual limitation on its prechange losses and certain recognized built-in losses equal to the value of the corporation's market capitalization immediately before the "ownership change" multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation is increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. Since U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation also effectively provides a cap on the cumulative amount of prechange losses and certain recognized built-in losses that may be utilized. Prechange losses and certain recognized built-in losses in excess of the cap are effectively lost. The relevant calculations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code are technical and highly complex. Any stock offering, combined with other ownership changes, could cause First Mariner to experience an "ownership change." If an "ownership change" were to occur, we believe it could permanently lose the ability to realize a portion of its deferred tax asset, resulting in reduction to total shareholders' equity. This could also decrease the Bank's regulatory capital. We do not believe, however, that any such decrease in regulatory capital would be material because, among other things, only a small portion of the federal deferred tax asset is currently included in the Bank's regulatory capital. Although publicly traded, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity of stocks listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Market our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity for companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This marketplace depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. This limited market may affect your ability to 32 Table of Contents sell your shares on short notice and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock. For these reasons, our common stock should not be viewed as a short-term investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future and this volatility may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market swings in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. If we are unable to satisfy the continued listing standards of NASDAQ, our stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market, which could adversely affect its market price and liquidity. We are required to meet NASDAQ's continued listing requirements in order to remain listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market. We are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. On December 10, 2009, the Company received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market providing notice that, for 30 consecutive business days, the Company's common stock had not maintained a minimum market value of publicly held shares ("MVPHS") of $5 million as required for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market by Listing Rule 5450(b)(1)(c). For NASDAQ purposes, MVPHS is the market value of the Company's publicly held shares, which is calculated by subtracting all shares held by officers, directors or beneficial owners of 10% or more of the total shares outstanding. NASDAQ provided the Company until March 10, 2010 to regain compliance with Listing Rule 5450(b)(1)(c). Also on December 10, 2009, the Company received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market providing notice that, for 30 consecutive business days, the Company's common stock had not maintained a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share as required for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market by Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). NASDAQ provided the until June 8, 2010 to regain compliance with Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). On February 3, 2010, the NASDAQ provided us with a letter that our common stock had regained compliance with these Listing Rules and both matters were now closed. In the future, if our common stock were unable to satisfy The NASDAQ Stock Market's listing standards and we were not able to regain compliance with the listing standards, our stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market. If our common stock is delisted, it could be more difficult to buy or sell our common stock and to obtain accurate quotations, and the price of our stock could suffer a material decline. Delisting may also impair our ability to raise capital. Furthermore, if our common stock is delisted, we would apply to have our common stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, and our common stock would become subject to the SEC's penny stock regulations. A penny stock, as defined by the Penny Stock Reform Act, is any equity security not traded on a national securities exchange that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The penny stock regulations generally require that a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith be delivered to purchasers of penny stocks and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The broker-dealer must make a suitability determination for each purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement prior to the sale. In addition, the broker-dealer must make certain mandated disclosures, including the actual sale or purchase price and actual bid offer quotations, as well as the compensation to be received by the broker-dealer and certain associated persons. The regulations applicable to penny stocks may severely affect the market liquidity for our common stock and could limit your ability to sell your securities in the secondary market. 