ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS We are subject to restrictions and conditions of a Cease and Desist Order issued by the FDIC and the Commissioner ("September Order"), and agreements with the FRB ("FRB Agreement" and "New FRB Agreement") and have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with these enforcement actions. The FDIC and the Commissioner have issued Cease and Desist Orders against the Bank and the Company. The Bank and the Company have also entered into the FRB Agreement and the New FRB Agreement. The September Order contains a number of significant directives, including higher capital 19 Table of Contents requirements, requirements to reduce the level of our classified assets, operating restrictions, and restrictions on dividend payments by the Bank. These restrictions may impede our ability to operate our business. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the September Order or the New FRB Agreement, the appropriate regulatory authority could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions, monetary penalties, or possibly place the Bank in receivership. We could also be directed to seek a merger partner. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the enforcement actions, and we will incur ongoing expenses attributable to compliance with the terms of the enforcement actions. Although we do not expect it, it is possible regulatory compliance expenses related to the enforcement actions could have a material adverse impact on us in the future. In addition, our ability to independently make certain changes to our business is restricted by the terms of the September Order and the New FRB Agreement, which could negatively impact the scope and flexibility of our business activities. While we believe that we will be able to take actions that will result in the September Order and the New FRB Agreement being terminated in the future, we cannot guarantee that such actions will result in the termination of the September Order and/or the New FRB Agreement. Further, the imposition of the September Order and the New FRB Agreement may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employees. For more information on the September Order and the New FRB Agreement, see "Capital Resources" in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2010, the Bank's and the Company's capital levels were not sufficient to achieve compliance with the higher capital requirements we were required by our regulators to meet by June 30, 2010. The failure to maintain these capital requirements could result in further action by our regulators. In the September Order, the FDIC and the Commissioner directed the Bank to raise its Tier 1 leverage and total risk-based capital ratios to 6.5% and 10%, respectively, by March 31, 2010 and to 7.5% and 11%, respectively, by June 30, 2010. We did not meet these requirements. Based on assets as of December 31, 2010, we estimated that we would need to increase the Bank's capital by at least $37.6 million to achieve Tier 1 leverage and total risk-based capital ratios of 7.5% and 11%, respectively. We have been in regular communication with the staffs of the FDIC and the Commissioner regarding efforts to satisfy the higher capital requirements. First Mariner currently does not have any capital available to invest in the Bank and any further increases to our allowance for loan losses and operating losses would negatively impact our capital levels and make it more difficult to achieve the capital levels directed by the FDIC and the Commissioner. Because we have not met all of the capital requirements set forth in the September Order within the prescribed timeframes, if our revised capital plan is not approved or if we are not granted a waiver of such requirements, the FDIC and the Commissioner could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties, as well as further operating restrictions. The FDIC or the Commissioner could direct us to seek a merger partner or possibly place the Bank in receivership. If the Bank is placed into receivership, the Company would cease operations and liquidate or seek bankruptcy protection. If the Company were to liquidate or seek bankruptcy protection, we do not believe that there would be assets available to holders of the capital stock of the Company. Additionally, on November 24, 2009, First Mariner's primary regulator, the FRB, required the Company to enter into the New FRB Agreement. In accordance with the requirements of the New FRB Agreement, the Company submitted a written plan to maintain sufficient capital at the holding company level, such that First Mariner satisfies the FRB's minimum capital requirements. As of the date of this document, the FRB is reviewing the Company's revised capital plan. To satisfy these requirements, First Mariner's consolidated Tier 1 capital to average quarterly assets, Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and total capital to risk-weighted assets ratios must be at least 4.0%, 4.0%, and 8.0%, respectively. At December 31, 2010, those capital ratios were 0.7%, 1.0%, and 2.1%, respectively, 20 Table of Contents which were not in compliance with the minimum requirements. Based on assets as of December 31, 2010, we estimated that we will need to increase the Company's capital by at least $55.5 million to meet all of the requirements. As further described above, the failure to meet all of the capital ratios could subject us to additional enforcement actions. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed above, the Bank is subject to the September Order and the Company is subject to the New FRB Agreement, both of which require the Bank and the Company, respectively, to increase leverage and total risk-based capital ratios and, at December 31, 2010, the Company was significantly below the required levels. Failure to increase the Company's capital ratios or further declines in the capital ratios exposes the Company and the Bank to additional restrictions and regulatory actions, including potential regulatory receivership of the Bank. This uncertainty as to the Company's ability to meet existing or future regulatory requirements raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Unless the Company is able to raise sufficient levels of capital in the very near future, we will be unable to meet the capital ratio requirements. The Company's audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company's financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. If the Company cannot continue as a going concern, the Company's shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. In addition, the Bank's customers, employees, vendors, correspondent institutions, and others with whom the Bank does business may react negatively to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This negative reaction may lead to heightened concerns regarding the Bank's financial condition that could result in a significant loss in deposits and customer relationships, key employees, vendor relationships and our ability to do business with correspondent institutions upon which we rely. We may need to raise additional capital through a share issuance in the future that would dilute your ownership if you do not, or are not permitted to, invest in the additional issuances. Should we in the future need to raise additional capital, we might seek to do so through one or more offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into common stock, or rights to acquire such securities of our common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time and on our financial performance. Our stock price has been as low as $0.35 within the last year. Moreover, there has been unprecedented volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets in recent years, which has produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for numerous issuers. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, and if our stock price remains at its current level, we may be unable to raise additional capital, or we may be able to raise capital only at prices that would be unfavorable and dilutive to our shareholders. As further described above, if we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected, and our banking regulators may subject us to further regulatory enforcement action. Under our Articles of Incorporation, we have additional authorized shares of common stock that we can issue from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without further action by the shareholders, except where shareholder approval is required by law or NASDAQ Capital Market requirements. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock, particularly those who are not able to or choose not to participate in such additional issuances. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro-rata share of any offering of 21 Table of Contents shares of any class or series and, therefore, our shareholders may not be permitted to invest in any future issuances of our common stock and as a result could be diluted. We have taken actions, and may take additional actions, to help us meet immediate needs for capital, including reducing our assets and liabilities. The disposition of our assets and liabilities could hurt our long-term profitability. On December 14, 2009, First Mariner consummated the sale of its equity interests in Mariner Finance to MF Raven Holdings, Inc. for a purchase price of approximately $10.5 million. We retained a 5% ownership stake in the new Mariner Finance entity. We recorded a loss on the sale of $11.1 million during 2009. While this transaction provided First Mariner with $10.5 million in cash to invest in the Bank to increase the Bank's capital, we will realize significantly less income generated by Mariner Finance going forward. Additionally, we closed our downtown Baltimore branch in February 2010 and our Shrewsbury, Pennsylvania office in June 2010. The closing of the Baltimore and Shrewsbury branches reduced 2010 overhead costs by approximately $500,000 and is expected to reduce annual overhead costs by approximately $1.0 million beginning in 2011 in support of our strategy of prudently reducing assets and liabilities. Total aggregate deposits in the Baltimore and Shrewsbury branches were approximately $24.9 million. Management expects to further evaluate its options for selling and/or closing additional branches as necessary. The Bank has not entered into any agreement to sell any branch office and no guarantee can be made that any such agreement will be entered into and if such agreement is entered into, whether such sale will be consummated. The approval of the FDIC and the Commissioner will also need to be obtained by any acquirer before buying any of our branch offices. While we anticipate that such approvals would be received, there can be no guarantee that such approvals will be received. While branch sales and closures, if completed, will likely reduce our assets and liabilities and increase our Bank capital ratios, we expect that our net income in the future will be reduced as a result of the loss of income generated by these branches. The Company and the Bank are deemed to be in "troubled condition" within the meaning of federal statutes and regulations. The Company and Bank are deemed to be in "troubled condition" within the meaning of federal statutes and regulations. As a result, certain limitations and regulatory requirements apply to the Company and the Bank with respect to future changes to senior executive management and directors and the payment of, or the agreement to pay, certain severance payments to officers, directors, and employees. The Bank must also comply with specified recordkeeping requirements in connection with transactions involving certain securities contracts, commodities contracts, repurchase agreements, and other "Qualified Financial Contracts." Negative conditions in the general economy and financial services industry may limit our access to additional funding, adversely impact liquidity, impair our ability to fund operations, and jeopardize our financial viability. Liquidity is essential to our business. We rely on customer deposits, advances from the FHLB, and lines of credit at other financial institutions to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could further detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn, the financial condition of the FHLB, adverse regulatory action against us and factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the 22 Table of Contents financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. The FHLB has reduced our line of credit to $132 million. Our outstanding balance as of December 31, 2010 was $107.0 million. The FRB has also notified the Bank that it will permit the Bank to draw on its line of credit with the FRB only in limited circumstances and for a short duration. As part of the September Order, we are not allowed to purchase brokered deposits without first obtaining a regulatory waiver. We are also required to comply with restrictions on deposit rates that we may offer. These factors could significantly affect our ability to fund normal operations. At December 31, 2010, we maintained a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents such that management considered the Bank's liquidity level to be sufficient for the purposes of meeting the Bank's cash flow requirements. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained and/or our cost of funds will increase if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if financing necessary to accommodate future growth is not available at favorable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. The large amount of liquidity on our balance sheet negatively impacts our ability to increase income. Because the FRB Agreements, the September Order, and our reduced borrowing capacity have limited our access to certain sources of funding, we have maintained significantly more liquidity on our balance sheet then we otherwise would. At December 31, 2010, the Bank's cash and cash equivalents exceeded $217.0 million. The opportunity cost of maintaining liquidity at this level or at similar levels is substantial, because, at December 31, 2010, the cash and cash equivalents we have accumulated yielded substantially less than our other interest-earning assets. Until we raise capital to a level that satisfies the capital requirements of the FRB Agreements and the September Order, we will need to maintain significantly higher levels of liquidity which will, in turn, negatively impact our ability to increase income. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely impact the value of our investments, financial performance, and capital. If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security. We maintain an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, mortgage-backed securities and pooled trust preferred collateralized debt obligations. The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the issuer, such as adverse changes in business climate and lack of liquidity for the resale of certain investment securities. As of December 31, 2010, our entire securities portfolio was classified as AFS. Unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the AFS portfolio are "marked to market" and reflected as a separate item in stockholders' equity as accumulated other comprehensive income. There can be no assurance that future market performance of our securities portfolio will enable us to realize income from sales of securities. Stockholders' equity will continue to reflect the unrealized gains and losses of these securities. There can be no assurance that the market value of our securities portfolio will not decline, causing a corresponding decline in stockholders' equity. We periodically, but not less than quarterly, evaluate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. We may be required to record impairment charges if investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other than temporary. Changes in the expected cash flows, credit enhancement levels, or credit ratings of our securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of our securities is other than temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI"), which could have a material adverse effect on results 23 Table of Contents of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, we recognized $1.2 million, $2.9 million, and $5.6 million, respectively, in such charges. The Bank is a member of the FHLB. A member of the FHLB system is required to purchase stock issued by the relevant FHLB bank based on how much it borrows from the FHLB and the quality of the collateral pledged to secure that borrowing. Included in our investment portfolio (classified as a restricted stock investment) as of December 31, 2010 is $7.0 million in capital stock of the FHLB. The FHLB is experiencing a potential capital shortfall and has, in the past, suspended its quarterly cash dividend, and could possibly require its members, including First Mariner, to make additional capital investments in the FHLB. There can be no guaranty that the FHLB will declare future dividends. In order to avail ourselves of correspondent banking services offered by the FHLB, we must remain a member of the FHLB. If the FHLB were to cease operations, or if we were required to write-off our investment in the FHLB, our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Accounting guidance indicates that an investor in FHLB stock should recognize impairment if it concludes that it is not probable that it will ultimately recover the par value of its shares. The decision of whether impairment exists is a matter of judgment that should reflect the investor's and FHLB's long-term performance, which includes factors such as its operating performance, the severity and duration of declines in the market value of its net assets related to its capital stock amount, its commitment to make payments required by law or regulation and the level of such payments in relation to its operating performance, the impact of legislation and regulatory changes on the FHLB, and accordingly, on the members of the FHLB, and its liquidity and funding position. After evaluating all of these considerations, we believe the par value of our FHLB stock will be recovered, but future evaluations of the above mentioned factors could result in the Bank recognizing an impairment charge. Management believes that several factors will affect the market values of our securities portfolio. These include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates or expectations of changes, the degree of volatility in the securities markets, inflation rates or expectations of inflation and the slope of the interest rate yield curve (the yield curve refers to the differences between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates; a positively sloped yield curve means shorter-term rates are lower than longer-term rates). Also, the passage of time will affect the market values of our investment securities, in that the closer they are to maturing, the closer the market price should be to par value. These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently, and management cannot predict the effect these factors may have on any specific category. We have elected to defer the payment of interest on our outstanding trust preferred securities issued by trust subsidiaries of our holding company and expect to continue to defer the payment of interest for the foreseeable future. Though we have deferred the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures related to the trust preferred securities, we continue to accrue interest expense related to the trust preferred securities. First Mariner recognized interest expense of $1.9 million, $3.1 million, and $4.6 million on the trust preferred securities during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Under the terms of the subordinated debentures, our deferral of interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters (through the last quarter of 2013) does not constitute an event of default. During the deferral period, the deferred interest payments continue to accrue. To the extent applicable law permits interest on interest, the deferred interest payments also accrue interest at the rates specified in the corresponding indentures, compounded quarterly. All of the deferred interest and the compounded interest are due in full at the end of the applicable deferral period. If we fail to pay the deferred and compounded interest at the end of the deferral period, each trustee of the various trusts, or in most cases the holders of 25% of the outstanding principal amount of any issue of trust preferred securities, 24 Table of Contents would have the right, after any applicable grace period, to declare an event of default. The occurrence of an event of default on the subordinated debentures would entitle the trustees and holders of the trust preferred securities to exercise various remedies, including demanding immediate payment in full of the entire outstanding principal amount of the subordinated debentures. Currently we have no cash available at First Mariner to resume the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures. Accordingly, our ability to resume the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures will depend on the Bank's ability to generate earnings and pay dividends to First Mariner. In addition, the terms of the September Order currently prohibits the payment of dividends by the Bank without regulatory approval. As a result, if by January 2014 the September Order is not terminated, or if we do not achieve sufficient profitability for the Bank so that our regulators would grant approval for the Bank to pay dividends, we will be unable to resume the payment of interest on the subordinated debentures. Even if the Bank is able to resume paying dividends, we cannot be assured that the amount of dividends would be sufficient to pay the entire amount of interest due under the subordinated debentures at the end of the deferral period. We have had losses in recent periods. We incurred a net loss of $46.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we incurred net losses of $22.3 million and $15.1 million, respectively. Our earnings in these periods have been hurt by adverse economic conditions, including falling home prices, increasing foreclosures and increasing unemployment, in our markets, and our losses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 included $17.8 million, $11.7 million, and $10.9 million, respectively, of provisions for loan losses. Our ability to return to profitability will depend on whether we are able to reduce credit losses in the future, which will depend, in part, on whether economic conditions in our markets improve. Our management believes that our current business plan will be successful; however, our business plan is subject to current market conditions and its successful implementation is uncertain. There is no assurance that we will be successful in executing our business plan or that even if we successfully implement our business plan, we will be able to curtail our losses now or in the future. If we continue to incur significant operating losses, our stock price may further decline. Even if we increase capital levels so as to meet the Bank and consolidated capital levels mandated by our regulators, if we incur further operating losses, we may in the future need to raise additional capital to maintain Bank and consolidated capital levels that meet or exceed the levels mandated by our regulators. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined LTV ratios. The decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which the loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures, or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan 25 Table of Contents loss allowances in future periods. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by regulatory authorities, as part of their examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance after a review of the information available at the time of their examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to $14.1 million, or 1.74% of total loans outstanding and 26.36% of nonperforming loans ($50.6 million) and loans past-due 90 days or more and accruing ($3.0 million), as of December 31, 2010. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2010 may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would decrease our earnings. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding loan balances of approximately $723.1 million that were performing according to their original terms. However, the deterioration of one or more of these performing loans could result in a significant increase in our nonperforming loans and our provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations. We have a high percentage of commercial real estate and real estate construction loans in relation to our total loans. At December 31, 2010, we had $349.4 million in mortgage loans secured by commercial real estate and $89.6 million in real estate construction loans, which included $30.8 million in consumer construction loans and $58.8 million in commercial construction loans. Commercial mortgage loans and total construction loans represented 43.0% and 11.0%, respectively, of our net loan portfolio. While commercial real estate and construction loans are generally more interest rate sensitive and carry higher yields than do residential mortgage loans, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers, and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property's value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Current regulatory guidance suggests that institutions whose commercial real estate loans exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration risk and may be required to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Based on our commercial real estate concentration as of December 31, 2010, we may be subject to further supervisory analysis during future examinations. Although we continuously evaluate our concentration and risk management strategies, we cannot guarantee that any risk management practices we implement will be effective to prevent losses relating to our commercial real estate portfolio. Management cannot predict the extent to which this guidance will impact our operations or capital requirements. Mortgage-banking activities generate a significant portion of our noninterest income. A significant portion of our business involves originating residential mortgage loans through our mortgage division, which accounted for approximately 60.1%, 57.0%, and 54.6% of our noninterest income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Real estate loan origination activity, including refinancing, is generally greater during periods of low or declining interest rates and favorable economic conditions. Continued adverse changes in market conditions could have an adverse impact on our earnings through lower origination volumes. We face interest rate risk on our loans held for sale portfolio. We are exposed to interest rate risk in both our pipeline of mortgage originations (loans that have yet to close with the borrower) and in our warehouse loans (those loans that have closed with the borrower but have yet to be funded by investors). We have managed this interest rate risk through 26 Table of Contents hedging strategies. We hedge a portion of our mortgage loan pipeline and warehouse utilizing derivatives in the form of forward sales of mortgage-backed securities. We expect that these derivative financial instruments will experience changes in fair value opposite to the change in fair value of the derivative loan commitments and our warehouse. However, the process of selling loans and the use of forward sales of mortgage-backed securities to hedge interest rate risk associated with customer interest rate lock commitments ("IRLC" or "IRLCs") involves greater risk than selling loans on an individual basis through forward delivery commitments. Hedging interest rate risk requires management to estimate the expected "fallout" (rate lock commitments with customers that do not complete the loan process). Additionally, the fair value of the hedge may not correlate precisely with the change in fair value of the rate lock commitments with the customer due to changes in market conditions, such as demand for loan products, or prices paid for differing types of loan products. Variances from management's estimates for customer fallout or market changes making the forward sale of mortgage-backed securities ineffective may result in higher volatility in our profits from selling mortgage loans originated for sale. We engage an experienced third party to assist us in managing our activities in hedging and marketing sales strategy. We face credit risk related to our residential mortgage production activities. We face credit risk related to our residential mortgage production activities. Credit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or an institution to honor its contractual obligations to us. We manage mortgage credit risk principally by selling substantially all of the mortgage loans that we produce, limiting credit recourse to the Bank in those transactions, and by retaining high credit quality mortgages in our loan portfolio. We also limit our risk of loss on mortgage loan sales by establishing limits on activity to any one investor and by entering into contractual relationships with only those financial institutions that are approved by our Secondary Marketing Committee. The period of time between closing on a loan commitment with the borrower and funding by the investor ranges from between 15 and 90 days. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for residential mortgage loans. These conditions may fluctuate or even worsen in the future. In light of current conditions, there is a higher risk to retaining a larger portion of mortgage loans than we would in other environments until they are sold to investors. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We face risk related to covenants in our loan sales agreements with investors. Our sales agreements with investors who buy our loans generally contain covenants which may require us to repurchase loans under certain provisions, including delinquencies, or return premiums paid by these investors should the loan be paid off early. Any loans we are required to repurchase may be considered impaired loans, with the potential for charge-offs and/or loss provision charges. The addition of these repurchased loans to our portfolio could adversely affect our earnings and asset quality ratios. There may be certain loans in our portfolio that were originated for sale, but for various reasons, are unable to be sold. These loans are transferred to our loan portfolio at fair value, with any deterioration in value charged against mortgage-banking revenue. Any deterioration in value of the loan during the period held in the portfolio is charged to the allowance. 27 Table of Contents Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the DIF. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points ($.07 for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. The FDIC made further refinements to its risk-based assessment that were effective April 1, 2009 and that effectively made the range 7 to 77.5 basis points. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounted to 5 basis points on each institution's assets minus Tier one (core) capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution's assessment base. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $638,000. The FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the DIF reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will negatively impact our earnings. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring that all institutions prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. This prepayment was due on December 30, 2009. However, the FDIC exempted certain institutions from the prepayment requirement if it would adversely affect the safety and soundness of the institution. We have been granted an exemption to this prepayment requirement. We currently hold a significant amount of bank owned life insurance ("BOLI"). We currently hold a significant amount of BOLI on key employees and executives that have cash surrender values of $36.2 million as of December 31, 2010. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of various insurance companies to pay benefits in the event of the death of an insured employee, or return the cash surrender value to us in the event of our need for liquidity. We continuously monitor the financial strength of the various insurance companies with whom we carry policies. However, there is no assurance that one or more of these companies will not experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. Additionally, should we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity needs, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value as well as penalties for early termination of the insurance contracts. These events would have a negative impact on our earnings. Fluctuating interest rates may adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a rapidly changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact shareholders' equity and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable 28 Table of Contents to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our litigation related costs might continue to increase. The Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of the Bank's business. In the current economic environment the Bank's involvement in litigation has increased, primarily as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims in order to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. The Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses in legal actions where it has been named as a defendant and is vigorously defending these suits. Although management, based on discussion with litigation counsel, believes that such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Bank, there can be no assurance that a resolution of any such legal matters will not result in significant liability to the Bank nor have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or the Bank's ability to meet applicable regulatory requirements. The expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect the Bank's results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that the Bank's loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry in general, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the value of the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon liquidation or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or laws could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority, and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Legislation proposed by Congress in the past would give bankruptcy courts the power to reduce the increasing number of home foreclosures by giving bankruptcy judges the authority to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower's payments. Property owners would be allowed to keep their property while working out their debts. Other similar bills placing additional temporary moratoriums on foreclosure sales or otherwise modifying foreclosure procedures to the benefit of borrowers and the detriment of lenders could be enacted by either Congress or the state of Maryland in the future. Any such laws may further restrict our collection efforts on 1-4 single-family mortgage loans. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. These include provisions strengthening holding company capital requirements, requiring retention of a portion of the risk of securitized loans, and regulating debit card interchange fees. Also included is the creation of a new federal agency to administer and 29 Table of Contents enforce consumer and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased compliance costs and regulatory burden, increased interest expense, and higher capital standards. We face significant operational risks. We operate in many different businesses in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company and the Bank, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters, breaches of the internal control system, compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that results in a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems, or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation. Additionally, the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue, and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Operations in several of our markets could be disrupted by both the evacuation of large portions of the population as well as damage and/or lack of access to our banking and operation facilities. Although we have not experienced such an occurrence to date, severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other adverse external events may occur in the future. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, U.S. and global financial markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values, and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as 30 Table of Contents general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry, and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices, increasing foreclosures, and increasing unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of residential mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. The U.S. and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. Notwithstanding the actions of the U.S. and other governments, these efforts may not succeed in restoring industry, economic, or market conditions and may result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including First Mariner, are numerous and include (i) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (ii) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (iii) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (iv) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (v) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy in the Bank's market area. First Mariner Bank's primary market area for its core banking operations consists of central Maryland and portions of Maryland's eastern shore. Because of the Bank's concentration of business activities in its market area, our financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in the Bank's market area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism, and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures, or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Maryland could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring, and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited. Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to dividends if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. In general, future dividend policy is subject to the discretion of the board of directors and will depend upon our future earnings, capital requirements, regulatory constraints, and our financial condition, as well as that of the Bank. 31 Table of Contents Although the board of directors has declared cash dividends in the past, it has discontinued such payments to conserve cash and capital resources and does not intend to declare cash dividends until current earnings are sufficient to generate adequate internal capital to support growth. Our current ability to pay dividends is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Both federal and state laws impose restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends. Federal law prohibits the payment of a dividend by an insured depository institution if the depository institution is considered "undercapitalized" or if the payment of the dividend would make the institution "undercapitalized." For a Maryland commercial bank, dividends may be paid out of undivided profits or, with the prior approval of the Commissioner, from surplus in excess of 100% of required capital stock. If, however, the surplus of a Maryland bank is less than 100% of its required capital stock, then cash dividends may not be paid in excess of 90% of net earnings. Our ability to pay dividends is further subject to our ability to make payments of interest under junior subordinated debentures due through 2035 held by our statutory trusts Mariner Capital Trust ("MCT") II, III, IV, V, VI, and VII (collectively, the "Trusts"). These payments are necessary to fund the distributions that the Trusts each must pay to holders of its trust preferred securities (collectively, the "Trust Preferred Securities"). The terms of debentures permit us to defer interest payments for up to 20 quarterly periods. We have elected to defer interest payments on the debentures. This deferment is permitted by the terms of the debentures and does not constitute an event of default thereunder. Interest on the debentures and dividends on the related Trust Preferred Securities continue to accrue and will have to be paid in full prior to the expiration of the deferral period, which may not exceed 20 consecutive quarters and expires with the last quarter of 2013, and prior to the declaration of any dividends. Finally, First Mariner and the Bank have entered into regulatory agreements with our regulators which, among other things, require us to seek prior regulatory approval before the Bank pays dividends to First Mariner and/or before First Mariner pays dividends on its common stock. Although publicly traded, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity of stocks listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity for companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This marketplace depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. This limited market may affect your ability to sell your shares on short notice and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock. For these reasons, our common stock should not be viewed as a short-term investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future and this volatility may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market swings in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. NASDAQ delisting could make the market for our stock more illiquid On August 24, 2010, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market notifying us that, for 30 consecutive business days, the Company's common stock had not maintained a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share as required for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market by Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). 32 Table of Contents At that time NASDAQ provided the Company 180 calendar days, or until February 22, 2011, to regain compliance with Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). Alternatively, if the Company did not meet the minimum bid requirement by February 22, 2011 but would otherwise meet all NASDAQ Capital Market initial inclusion requirements except bid price, the Company could apply to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the Company would have 180 additional days to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement, which the Company would regain if the bid price of the Company's common stock closes at $1.00 per share or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. On February 18, 2011, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market notifying us that NASDAQ approved the our application to transfer the listing of our common stock to The NASDAQ Capital Market and that we were granted an extension of 180 days within which to comply with NASDAQ's $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. This transfer was effective at the opening of business on February 23, 2011. Trading in the Company's common stock is unaffected by this change and will continue under the symbol "FMAR." While we have not regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, in connection with the transfer to The NASDAQ Capital Market, we are eligible, until August 22, 2011, to regain compliance with this requirement. The approval of the listing transfer and extension was based, in part, on our meeting the applicable market value of publicly held shares requirement for continued listing, and all other applicable requirements for initial listing, on The NASDAQ Capital Market (except for the bid price requirement), and written notice of our intention to meet the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement during the additional 180 day period by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary. If, by August 22, 2011, the Company does not regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement, NASDAQ will provide written notice that our securities will be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. At such time, we would be entitled to appeal the delisting determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. We are also required to comply with the NASDAQ Capital Market's continued listing standards, including certain equity standards. If we fail to maintain compliance with these standards we may be delisted. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with these standards in the future. If the Company's stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, the market for the stock would shrink and you may not be able to conduct transactions in the volume, frequency, or for a price that you might want. Contracts with our officers may discourage a takeover or adversely affect our takeover value. We have entered into change in control agreements with five of our officers. These agreements provide for a payment to each officer of a multiple (ranging from 1 to 2.99) of his or her salary and bonus upon the occurrence of either a change in control that results in the loss of employment or a significant change in his or her employment. Thus, we may be required to make significant payments in the event that the rights under these agreements are triggered by a change in control. As a result, these contracts may discourage a takeover, or adversely affect the consideration payable to stockholders in the event of a takeover. Notwithstanding the foregoing, because the Company and the bank are considered to be in "troubled condition" for regulatory purposes, payments made under any change of control agreement are subject to certain regulatory restrictions and limitations. The Company and the Bank must apply for and receive the approval of the FRB and the FDIC, respectively, in order to make payments under these agreements. See "The Company and the Bank are deemed to be in troubled condition" above. Our Articles and Bylaws and Maryland law may discourage a corporate takeover. Our Articles and Amended and Restated Bylaws ("Bylaws") contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the board of directors to deal with attempts to acquire control of the Company. These provisions provide for the classification of our board of directors into three classes; directors of 33 Table of Contents each class serve for staggered three year periods. The Articles also provide for supermajority voting provisions for the approval of certain business combinations. Maryland law also contains anti-takeover provisions that apply to us. The Maryland Business Combination Act generally prohibits, subject to certain limited exceptions, corporations from being involved in any "business combination" (defined as a variety of transactions, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, asset transfer, or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) with any "interested shareholder" for a period of five years following the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. An interested shareholder is defined generally as a person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock or who is an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question and after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock. The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act applies to acquisitions of "control shares," which, subject to certain exceptions, are shares the acquisition of which entitle the holder, directly or indirectly, to exercise or direct the exercise of the voting power of shares of stock of the corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more, but less than one-third of all voting power; one-third or more, but less than a majority of all voting power or a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares have limited voting rights. Although these provisions do not preclude a takeover, they may have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt which would not be approved by our board of directors, but pursuant to which stockholders might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction might not have the opportunity to do so. Such provisions will also render the removal of our board of directors and of management more difficult and, therefore, may serve to perpetuate current management. Further, such provisions could potentially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our management controls a significant percentage of our common stock. At December 31, 2010, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 4,142,348 shares of our common stock (amount includes shares that could be acquired pursuant to immediately exercisable stock options and warrants), or 21.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock plus exercisable options and warrants. Edwin F. Hale, Sr., who is our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and largest stockholder, beneficially owns 3,534,272 shares of common stock, including exercisable options and warrants to purchase common stock, or 18.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock including exercisable options and warrants to purchase common stock as of December 31, 2010. Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders. 