ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our Future Depends on the Successful Growth of the Bank and Mariner Finance Our primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as a bank holding company. Our future profitability will therefore depend on the success and growth of the Bank and Mariner Finance. Our growth will depend, in large part, on our ability to leverage our existing infrastructure. The inability of the Bank to expand its business without substantially increasing the number of branches, the inability of our mortgage divisions to grow their residential mortgage business without substantially increasing its number of offices, or the inability of Mariner Finance to grow its consumer portfolio without substantially increasing its number of offices may prevent us from realizing our growth objectives. A Significant Amount of Our Business is Concentrated in Real Estate Lending, and Most of this Lending Involves Maryland Real Estate Approximately 25% of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial and consumer real estate development and construction loans, which are secured by the real estate being developed in each case. In addition to the risk that the market values of the real estate securing these loans may deteriorate, these loans are also subject to the development risks that the projects will not be completed in a timely manner, or according to original specifications. Real estate development and construction projects that are not completed in a timely manner, or according to original specifications, are generally less marketable than projects that are fully developed. The loans underlying such projects may be subject to greater losses in the event that the real estate collateral becomes the source of repayment. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Bank often secures its loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2007, approximately 79% of the Bank's loans have real estate as a primary, secondary, or tertiary component of collateral. The real 15 estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. We Have A High Percentage Of Commercial, Commercial Real Estate, And Real Estate Acquisition And Development Loans In Relation To Our Total Loans And Total Assets Our loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, and real estate acquisition and development loans in relation to our total loans and total assets. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, along with other federal banking regulators, issued final guidance on December 6, 2006 entitled, Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices, directed at institutions that have particularly high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within their lending portfolios. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result, and has resulted, in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on financial results. This recent guidance suggests that institutions whose commercial real estate loans exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration risk and may be required to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Based on our commercial real estate concentration as of December 31, 2007, we may be subject to further supervisory analysis during future examinations. Although we continuously evaluate our concentration and risk management strategies, we cannot guarantee that any risk management practices we implement will be effective to prevent losses relating to our commercial real estate portfolio. Management cannot predict the extent to which this guidance will impact our operations or capital requirements. Mortgage-Banking Activities Generate a Significant Portion of Our Noninterest Income A significant portion of our business involves making residential mortgage loans through our mortgage division, which accounted for approximately 30% and 44% of our noninterest income for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Real estate loan origination activity, including refinancings, is generally greater during periods of low or declining interest rates and favorable economic conditions, which had been favorably affected by relatively lower market interest rates during the past three years. However, we did experience a deterioration in market conditions during 2007 and continued adverse changes in market conditions could have an adverse impact on our earnings through lower origination volumes. We Experience Interest Rate Risk On Our Loans Held For Sale Portfolio We are exposed to interest rate risk in both our pipeline of mortgage originations (loans that have yet to close with the borrower) and in our warehouse loans (those loans that have closed with the borrower but have yet to be funded by investors). We have managed this interest rate risk primarily in two ways. Currently, we enter into agreements to sell our loans through the use of best efforts forward delivery contracts. Under this type of agreement we commit to sell a loan at an agreed price to an investor at the point in time the borrower commits to an interest rate on the loan, with the intent that the buyer assumes the interest rate risk on the loan. During 2006, a portion of our mortgage loan pipeline and warehouse were hedged utilizing forward sales of mortgage-backed securities and Eurodollars for loans to be sold under mandatory delivery contracts on a pooled or bulk basis. We 16 expected that these derivative financial instruments (forward sales of mortgage-backed securities and Eurodollars) would experience changes in fair value opposite to the change in fair value of the derivative loan commitments and our warehouse. However, the process of selling loans on a bulk basis and use of forward sales of mortgage-backed securities and Eurodollars to hedge interest rate risk associated with customer interest rate lock commitments involved greater risk than selling loans on an individual basis through best efforts forward delivery commitments. Hedging interest rate risk in bulk sales required management to estimate the expected "fallout" (rate lock commitments with customers that do not complete the loan process). Additionally, the fair value of the hedge may not have correlated precisely with the change in fair value of the rate lock commitments with the customer due to changes in market conditions, such as demand for loan products, or prices paid for differing types of loan products. Variances from management's estimates for customer fallout or market changes making the forward sale of mortgage-backed securities and/or Eurodollars non-effective may have resulted in higher volatility in our profits from selling mortgage loans originated for sale. We engaged an experienced third party to assist us in managing our activities in hedging and marketing our bulk sales delivery strategy. During 2007, we curtailed our forward loan commitments and the corresponding hedging using forward contracts to sell securities due to the significantly lower production volume of loans during the year. Most of the loans sold during 2007 were done so on a best efforts basis. We had no mandatory forward sales commitments or hedges as of December 31, 2007. We Experience Credit Risk Related To Our Residential Mortgage Production Activities We also face credit risk related to our residential mortgage production activities. Credit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or an institution to honor its contractual obligations to us, including the risk that an investor will fail to honor its obligation under a best efforts forward delivery contract to purchase the loan from us. We manage mortgage credit risk principally by selling substantially all of the mortgage loans that we produce, limiting credit recourse to the Bank in those transactions, and by retaining high credit quality mortgages in our loan portfolio. We also limit our risk of loss on mortgage loan sales by establishing limits on activity to any one investor and by entering into contractual relationships with only those financial institutions that are approved by our Secondary Marketing Committee. The period of time between closing on a loan commitment with the borrower and funding by the investor ranges from between 15 and 90 days. We Experience Risk Related To Covenants In Our Loan Sales Agreements With Investors Our sales agreements with investors who buy our loans generally contain covenants which may require us to repurchase loans under certain provisions, including delinquencies, or return premiums paid by these investors should the loan be paid off early. Any loans we are required to repurchase may be considered impaired loans, with the potential for charge-offs and/or loss provision charges. The addition of these repurchased loans to our portfolio could adversely affect our earnings and asset quality ratios. There may be certain loans in our portfolio that were originated for sale, but for various reasons, are unable to be sold. These loans are transferred to our loan portfolio at fair market value. Any deterioration in value of the loan during the period held in the portfolio is charged to the allowance for loan losses. We May Experience Loan Losses in Excess of the Allowance The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management 17 maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical loss experience in the loan portfolios, the levels and trends in past-due and nonaccrual loans, the status of nonaccrual loans and other loans identified as having the potential for further deterioration, credit risk and industry concentrations, trends in loan volume, the effects of any changes in lending policies and procedures or underwriting standards, and a continuing evaluation of the economic environment. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if regulatory authorities require the Bank or Mariner Finance to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2007, the allowance for loan losses was $12.789 million, which represented 1.50% of outstanding loans, net of unearned income. At such date, we had nonaccruing loans totaling $24.389 million. Management actively administers its nonaccruing loans in an effort to minimize credit losses. Although management believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to nonperforming or performing loans. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in net income and capital, and could have and have had a material adverse effect on us. We currently hold a significant level of Bank Owned Life Insurance We currently hold a significant level of Bank Owned Life Insurance on key employees and executives that have cash surrender values of $34.931 million as of December 31, 2007. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of various insurance companies to pay benefits in the event of the death of an insured employee, or return the cash surrender value to us in the event of our need for liquidity. We continuously monitor the financial strength of the various insurance companies with whom we carry policies. However, there is no assurance that one or more of these companies will not experience a decline in financial strength which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. Additionally, should we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity needs, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value as well as penalties for early termination of the insurance contracts. These events would have a negative impact on our earnings. Economic Conditions and Monetary Policy Our operating results will depend to a great extent upon the rate differentials between the yields earned on our loans, securities and other earning assets and the rates paid on our deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rate differentials are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, in particular the Federal Reserve Board. The makeup of our loan and deposit portfolios, in particular, determines our sensitivity to these factors. At December 31, 2007, we had a one year cumulative interest sensitivity gap of $104.458 million. See Item 7A혰"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk혰Interest Rate Sensitivity." Like other depository institutions, the Company is affected by the monetary policies implemented by the Federal Reserve Board and other federal entities. A primary instrument of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board is the restriction or expansion of the money supply through 18 open market operations, including the purchase and sale of government securities and the adjustment of reserve requirements. These actions may at times result in significant fluctuations in interest rates, which could have adverse effects on our operations. In particular, our ability to make loans, attract deposits and realize gains on the sale of residential mortgage loans, as well as public demand for loans, could be adversely affected. See Item 1혰"Business혰Economic Monetary Policies and Economic Controls." Our Ability to Pay Cash Dividends is Limited Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to dividends if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. Although the board of directors has declared cash dividends in the past, it has discontinued such payments to conserve cash and capital resources, and does not intend to declare cash dividends until current earnings are sufficient to generate adequate internal capital to support growth. Our current ability to pay dividends is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Federal and state laws impose restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends. Additional restrictions are placed upon us by the policies of federal regulators, including the FRB's November 14, 1985 policy statement, which provides that bank holding companies should pay dividends only out of the past year's net income, and then only if their prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with their capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Our ability to pay dividends is further subject to our ability to make payments of interest under junior subordinated debentures due through 2035 held by our statutory trusts Mariner Capital Trust II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII ("the trusts"). These payments are necessary to fund the distributions that the trusts each must pay to holders of its trust preferred securities (collectively, the "Mariner Trust Preferred Securities"). If we are unable to make such payments, if we determine to defer such payments, or if we default under our other obligations in connection with the Mariner Trust Preferred Securities, we will not be permitted to pay dividends to holders of our common stock until such time as we recommence making payments or are not otherwise in default. In general, future dividend policy is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon a number of factors, including the future earnings, capital requirements, regulatory constraints, and our financial condition as well as that of the Bank and Mariner Finance. Our Management Controls a Significant Percentage of Our Stock At December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 1,916,000 shares of our common stock (either directly or with options), or 30% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Edwin F. Hale, Sr., who is our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and largest stockholder, beneficially owns 1,432,316 shares of common stock (with options), or 23% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2007. Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Our Stock is Not Heavily Traded The average daily trading volume of our shares on The Nasdaq National Market for the previous three months was approximately 8,000 shares. Thus, our common stock is not heavily traded and can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. Factors such as our financial results, the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors, and various factors affecting the banking industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, 19 and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our stockholders may not be able to trade large blocks of shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. Our Stock is Not Insured Investments in the shares of our common stock are not deposits and are not insured against loss by the government. We Operate in a Competitive Market We operate in a competitive environment, competing for deposits, loans and customers with commercial banks, thrifts, finance companies, and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market, Internet-based deposit intermediaries, mutual funds, and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage-banking firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, and other financial intermediaries. Many of the financial intermediaries operating in our market area offer certain services, such as trust, investment, and international banking services, which we do not offer. In addition, companies with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits, and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers. In November 1999, the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ("GLBA") was signed into law. GLBA revised the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and repealed the affiliation provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which, taken together, limited the securities, insurance, and other non-banking activities of any company that controls an FDIC insured financial institution. Under GLBA, a bank holding company can elect, subject to certain qualifications, to become a "financial holding company." GLBA provides that a financial holding company may engage in a full range of financial activities, including insurance and securities sales and underwriting activities, and real estate development, with new expedited notice procedures. First Mariner Bancorp has operated as a financial holding company since 2002, but recently withdrew that election. The termination of this financial holding company status may increase the competition we face in our market areas from bank holding companies that are also or may in the future become financial holding companies and from other entities that engage, or in the future may engage, in activities in which bank holding companies that are not also financial holding companies may not engage. Finally, our continued growth and profitability will depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled managerial, marketing, and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the banking industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Contracts With Our Officers May Discourage a Takeover or Adversely Affect Our Takeover Value We have entered into change in control agreements with nine of our officers. These agreements provide for a payment to each officer of a multiple (ranging from 1 to 2.99) of his or her salary and bonus upon the occurrence of either a change in control that results in the loss of employment or a significant change in his or her employment. Thus, we may be required to make significant payments in the event that the rights under these agreements are triggered by a change in control. As a result, these contracts may discourage a takeover, or adversely affect the consideration payable to stockholders in the event of a takeover. 20 Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws May Discourage a Corporate Takeover Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation ("Articles"), and Amended and Restated Bylaws ("Bylaws"), contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the Board of Directors to deal with attempts to acquire control of the Company. These provisions provide for the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes; directors of each class serve for staggered three year periods. The Articles also provide for supermajority voting provisions for the approval of certain business combinations. Although these provisions do not preclude a takeover, they may have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt which would not be approved by our Board of Directors, but pursuant to which stockholders might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction might not have the opportunity to do so. Such provisions will also render the removal of our Board of Directors and of management more difficult and, therefore, may serve to perpetuate current management. Further, such provisions could potentially adversely affect the market price of the common stock. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission at December 31, 2007. 