Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for the historical information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, certain matters discussed herein, including (without limitation) under Part I, Item 1, “Business - Environmental Compliance,” under Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and under Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although we believe that, in making any such statements, our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. When used in this document, the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends” and similar expressions as they relate to Smurfit-Stone Container Enterprises, Inc. or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, certain of which are beyond our control. These factors, risks and uncertainties are discussed in Part 1, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. Accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur or, if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. We expressly decline any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Unless the context otherwise requires, “we,” “us,” “our,” “Company” or “Smurfit-Stone Enterprises” refers to the business of Smurfit-Stone Container Enterprises, Inc. and its subsidiaries. GENERAL Smurfit-Stone Container Enterprises, Inc. (SSCE), incorporated in Delaware in 2000, is the industry’s leading integrated manufacturer of paperboard and paper-based packaging in North America, including containerboard, corrugated containers, multiwall bags and coated recycled boxboard, and is one of the world’s largest paper recyclers. In addition, we are a leading producer of solid bleached sulfate (SBS) and folding cartons. We have a complete line of graphics capabilities for packaging. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our net sales were $8,396 million and net loss was $327 million. For information relating to the geographic areas in which we operate, see information set forth in Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We are a wholly-owned subsidiary of Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation (Smurfit-Stone or SSCC), a holding company with no business operations of its own. Smurfit-Stone conducts its business operations through us. We are the surviving company resulting from the merger (the Merger) of Smurfit-Stone’s primary operating subsidiaries on November 1, 2004. JSCE, Inc. merged with and into Jefferson Smurfit Corporation (U.S.) (JSC(U.S.)), with JSC(U.S.) as the surviving company, and then JSC(U.S.) merged with and into us, with us as the surviving entity. The Merger was effected principally to consolidate debt financing activities of Smurfit-Stone and its subsidiaries. We were simultaneously renamed Smurfit-Stone Container Enterprises, Inc. We and JSC(U.S.) were wholly-owned subsidiaries of Smurfit-Stone and, therefore, the historical cost basis of the acquired entity, JSC(U.S.), carried over into us. As a result of the Merger, our financial statements for all periods presented have been restated to include the combined results of us and JSC(U.S.). The Merger did not impact the operating activities of the merged companies, which continue to do business as Smurfit-Stone FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS We have two reportable segments: (1) Containerboard and Corrugated Containers and (2) Consumer Packaging. For financial information relating to our segments for the last three fiscal years, including our net sales to external customers by country of origin and total assets, see the information set forth in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We are currently evaluating strategic options for our Consumer Packaging segment, including the possible sale of some or all of these businesses. As of December 31, 2005, we did not meet the criteria to account for the Consumer Packaging segment as assets held for sale, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” Accordingly, the operations of the Consumer Packaging segment are included in continuing operations in the consolidated statements of operations and as a reportable segment. 2 PRODUCTS CONTAINERBOARD AND CORRUGATED CONTAINERS SEGMENT The Containerboard and Corrugated Containers segment includes 19 paper mills (16 located in the United States and three in Canada), 148 container plants (125 located in the United States, 18 in Canada, four in Mexico and one in Puerto Rico) and one wood products plant located in the United States. In addition, we have an equity ownership in five corrugated container plants in Asia (four in China and one in Thailand), as well as two sheet plants and a lithographic printing plant in China. Also, we own approximately one million acres of timberland in Canada and operate wood harvesting facilities in Canada and the United States. The primary products of our Containerboard and Corrugated Containers segment include: • corrugated containers; • containerboard; • kraft paper; • SBS; and • market pulp. We produce a full range of high quality corrugated containers designed to protect, ship, store and display products made to our customers’ merchandising and distribution specifications. Corrugated containers are sold to a broad range of manufacturers of consumer goods. Corrugated containers are used to ship such diverse products as home appliances, electric motors, small machinery, grocery products, produce, computers, books, furniture and many other products. We provide customers with innovative packaging solutions to advertise and sell their products. In addition, we manufacture and sell a variety of retail ready, point of purchase displays and a full line of specialty products, including pizza boxes, corrugated clamshells for the food industry, Cordeck® recyclable pallets and custom die-cut boxes to display packaged merchandise on the sales floor. Our container plants serve local customers and large national accounts. Net sales of corrugated containers for 2005, 2004 and 2003 represented 55% of the Company’s total net sales for each period. In 2004, Innovation to Implementation (i2iSM) was formed as a single-source integrator and provider of merchandising solutions to retailers and consumer packaging companies. i2iSM was reported as a non-reportable segment in 2004. During the fourth quarter of 2005, these operations were moved into the Containerboard and Corrugated Containers segment and the 2004 segment information was restated. i2iSM combines the creativity of our packaging solution centers, the capabilities of our packaging facilities and externally sourced products and services to deliver merchandise solutions, including strategic brand development and creative design, to customers. The products and services provided by i2iSM include branding, marketing, design photography, artwork production, pre-press, sourcing, fulfillment and inventory management. The operations of i2iSM include three packaging design centers in North America and one in Asia. Our containerboard mills produce a full line of containerboard, which is used primarily in the production of corrugated packaging. We produced 3,581,000 tons of unbleached kraft linerboard, 971,000 tons of white top linerboard and 2,663,000 tons of medium in 2005. Our containerboard mills and corrugated container operations are highly integrated, with the majority of our containerboard used internally by our corrugated container operations. In 2005, our corrugated container plants consumed 5,451,000 tons of containerboard. Net sales of containerboard to third parties for 2005, 2004 and 2003 represented 16%, 15% and 15%, respectively, of the Company’s total net sales. Our paper mills also produce SBS, kraft paper, market pulp and other specialty products. We specialize in high-quality grades of SBS, which are designed to meet the demanding print requirements of folding carton and carded packaging customers in the food, pharmaceutical, cosmetics and other niche markets. A portion of our SBS is consumed internally by our folding carton plants. Kraft paper is used in numerous products, including consumer and industrial bags, grocery and shopping bags, counter rolls, handle stock and refuse bags. A significant portion of our kraft paper is consumed by our consumer packaging operations. In addition, we produce bleached northern and southern hardwood pulp and bleached 3 southern softwood pulp, which is sold to manufacturers of paper products, including photographic and other specialty papers, as well as the printing and writing sectors. Production for our paper mills and sales volume for our corrugated container facilities for the last three years were: 2005 2004 2003 Tons produced (in thousands) Containerboard 7,215 7,438 7,185 Kraft paper 204 259 293 SBS 283 276 290 Market pulp 563 549 497 Corrugated containers sold (in billion sq. ft.) (1) (2) 80.8 81.6 79.7 (1) Includes 100% of Smurfit-MBI, a Canadian corrugated container producer, after March 31, 2003, the date we acquired the remaining 50% not previously owned. (2) Excludes intercompany shipments. Includes our proportionate share of affiliates reported on an equity ownership basis. CONSUMER PACKAGING SEGMENT The Consumer Packaging segment includes four paper mills, 17 folding carton plants, 11 bag packaging plants and 14 other converting plants. Our Consumer Packaging operations are primarily located in the United States. The primary products of our Consumer Packaging segment include: • folding cartons; • coated recycled boxboard; • multiwall and consumer bags; • flexible packaging; • laminated products; and • paper, foil and heat transfer labels. Folding cartons are used primarily to protect customers’ products, while providing point of purchase advertising. We produce a full range of carton styles, appropriate for nearly all carton end uses. The folding carton plants offer extensive converting capabilities, including sheet and web lithographic, rotogravure and flexographic printing and laminating. In addition, we provide Lithoflute™ packaging for a number of applications. The folding carton plants also provide a full line of structural and graphic design services tailored to specific technical requirements, as well as photography for packaging, sales promotion concepts and point of purchase displays. Converting capabilities include gluing, tray forming, windowing, waxing and laminating, plus other specialties. Our customer base is made up primarily of producers of packaged foods, beverages, fast food, detergents, paper, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics. Our customers range from local accounts to large national accounts. Our coated recycled boxboard mills produce a broad range of recycled grades, including clay-coated newsback, kraftback and whiteback, as well as waxable and laminated grades. Our coated boxboard mills and folding carton operations are highly integrated, with the majority of our coated boxboard used internally by our folding carton operations. In 2005, our folding carton plants consumed 369,000 tons of recycled boxboard. Multiwall bags are designed to safely and effectively ship a wide range of industrial and commercial products, including fertilizers, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, building products, concrete, food, feed, seed and salt. Bags can be customized with easy-open features, handles and resealable closures, with a variety of liners, coatings and other treatments. We have developed and patented many innovative styles, including Cap-Sac®, PeelPak®, Soni-Loc®, Peel-N-Pour™, SquareStack™ and SquareSak™. We also manufacture small consumer bags for food and other products sold at retail outlets, including pet food and litter, cookies, flour, baking mixes and microwave popcorn. In 2005, our bag operations consumed approximately 128,000 tons of kraft paper. 4 Production for our coated recycled boxboard mills and sales volume for the folding carton and multiwall bag facilities for the last three years were: 2005 2004 2003 Tons (in thousands) Coated recycled boxboard produced 556 560 577 Folding cartons sold 523 517 514 Multiwall bags sold (in million bags) 1,112 1,157 1,156 Our flexible packaging operations manufacture a complete line of plain and printed polyethylene bags, sheeting and tubing in a variety of colors with custom treatments for specific applications. We specialize in packaging hard-to-hold products, condiments for fast food, pharmaceutical and health care technologies, flexographic film printing and servicing multi-design and multi-structural accounts. We also produce printed paper, foil and DI-NA-CAL® heat transfer labels, which are used in a wide range of industrial and consumer product applications. DI-NA-CAL® is a proprietary labeling system that applies high-speed heat transfer labels to plastic containers. We also produce specialized laminations of film, foil and paper. NON-REPORTABLE SEGMENT Reclamation Our reclamation operations procure fiber resources for our paper mills as well as other producers. We operate 23 reclamation facilities in the United States that collect, sort, grade and bale recovered paper. We also collect aluminum and plastics for resale to manufacturers of these products. In addition, we operate a nationwide brokerage system whereby we purchase and resell recovered paper to our recycled paper mills and other producers on a regional and national contract basis. Our waste reduction services extract additional recyclables from the waste stream by partnering with customers to reduce their waste expenses and increase efficiencies. Brokerage contracts provide bulk purchasing, often resulting in lower prices and cleaner recovered paper. Many of our reclamation facilities are located close to our recycled paper mills, ensuring availability of supply with minimal shipping costs. Total tons of fiber reclaimed and brokered for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were 6,501,000, 6,542,000 and 6,549,000, respectively. In 2005, our paper mills consumed 2,988,000 tons of the fiber reclaimed and brokered by our reclamation operations, representing an integration level of approximately 46%. RAW MATERIALS Wood fiber and reclaimed fiber are the principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our paper products. We satisfy the majority of our need for wood fiber through purchases on the open market or under supply agreements. We satisfy essentially all of our need for reclaimed fiber through our reclamation facilities and nationwide brokerage system. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Our marketing strategy is to sell a broad range of paper-based packaging products to manufacturers of industrial and consumer products. We seek to meet the quality and service needs of the customers of our converting plants at the most efficient cost, while balancing those needs against the demands of our open market paperboard customers. Our converting plants focus on supplying both specialized packaging with high value graphics that enhance a product’s market appeal and high-volume commodity products. We serve a broad customer base for each of our segments. As a result, we serve thousands of accounts from our plants. We sell packaging and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through resellers. Our packaging businesses have historically operated in a decentralized environment, largely fielding their own operating and sales teams and carving out market territories. To respond to challenging market opportunities, we reorganized our folding carton sales organization several years ago to centralize the sales responsibilities for those converting plants. Late in 2005, we began a similar process to centralize the corrugated container sales organization. This reorganization will allow us to 5 better focus on revenue growth and assign the right resources to the best opportunities. Marketing of containerboard and pulp to third parties is centralized in our board sales group, which sells approximately 2.7 million tons of pulp and paperboard annually. Our business is not dependent upon a single customer or upon a small number of major customers. We do not believe the loss of any one customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. COMPETITION The markets in which we sell our principal products are highly competitive and comprised of many participants. Although no single company is dominant, we do face significant competitors in each of our businesses. Our competitors include large vertically integrated companies as well as numerous smaller companies. The industries in which we compete have historically been sensitive to price fluctuations brought about by shifts in industry capacity and other cyclical industry conditions. While we compete primarily on the basis of price in many of our product lines, other competitive factors include design, quality and service, with varying emphasis depending on product line. BACKLOG Demand for our major product lines is relatively constant throughout the year and seasonal fluctuations in marketing, production, shipments and inventories are not significant. Backlogs are not a significant factor in the industry. We do not have a significant backlog of orders as most orders are placed for delivery within 30 days. RESEARCH AND NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The majority of our research and development activities are performed at our facilities located in Carol Stream and Westmont, Illinois. We use advanced technology to assist all levels of the manufacturing and sales processes, from raw material supply through finished packaging performance. Research programs have provided improvements in coatings and barriers, stiffeners, inks and printing. Our technical staff conducts basic, applied and diagnostic research, develops processes and products and provides a wide range of other technical services. We spent approximately $10 million in 2005 on research and new product development activities. Comparable amounts were spent in 2004 and 2003. We actively pursue applications for patents on new inventions and designs and attempt to protect our patents against infringement. Nevertheless, we believe our success and growth are more dependent on the quality of our products and our relationships with customers than on the extent of our patent protection. We hold or are licensed to use certain patents, licenses, trademarks and trade names on products, but do not consider the successful continuation of any material aspect of our business to be dependent upon such intellectual property. EMPLOYEES We had approximately 33,500 employees at December 31, 2005, of which approximately 28,200 were employees of U.S. operations. Approximately 17,300 (61%) of our U.S. employees are represented by collective bargaining units. The expiration dates of union contracts for our major paper mill facilities are as follows: • Hodge, Louisiana - June 2006 • Jacksonville, Florida - August 2006 • Missoula, Montana - June 2007 • Hopewell, Virginia - July 2007 • Brewton, Alabama - October 2007 • Panama City, Florida - March 2008 • Fernandina Beach, Florida - June 2008 • West Point, Virginia - September 2008 • Florence, South Carolina - August 2009 • La Tuque, Quebec, Canada - August 2009 6 We believe our employee relations are generally good. There were no work stoppages during 2005, although our Los Angeles, California medium mill has been operating under an expired collective bargaining agreement, covering approximately 80 employees, since June 2005, and negotiations to reach a new agreement have been unsuccessful. The Los Angeles mill has a capacity to produce 145,000 tons annually. While the terms of our collective bargaining agreements may vary, we believe the material terms of the agreements are customary for the industry, the type of facility, the classification of the employees and the geographic location covered thereby. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities. In the past, we have made significant capital expenditures to comply with water, air, solid and hazardous waste and other environmental laws and regulations. We expect to make significant expenditures in the future for environmental compliance. Because various environmental standards are subject to change, it is difficult to predict with certainty the amount of capital expenditures that will ultimately be required to comply with future standards. In 1998, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued its comprehensive rule governing air emissions (Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT)) and water discharges (Effluent Limitation Guidelines) for the pulp, paper and paperboard industry, known as the “Cluster Rule.” All mills that are subject to Phase I of MACT I, MACT II and the Effluent Limitation Guidelines of the Cluster Rule have completed capital projects to ensure compliance. Phase II of MACT I of the Cluster Rule will require the implementation of systems to collect high volume, low concentration gases at various mills and has a compliance date of April 16, 2006, although certain of our mills have been granted one year extensions to April 16, 2007. Based on currently available information, we estimate that the aggregate compliance cost of Phase II of MACT I will be approximately $80 million. We have spent approximately $42 million through 2005 and we anticipate spending approximately $33 million in 2006 and $5 million in 2007 for projects related to Phase II of MACT I, which will substantially complete all of the projects to bring us into compliance with Phase II of MACT I. In recent years, the EPA has undertaken significant air quality initiatives associated with nitrogen oxide emissions, regional haze and national ambient air quality standards. Several of our mills are located in states affected by these EPA initiatives. The EPA has also promulgated a Boiler MACT regulation that will limit particulate emissions from industrial boilers. Several of our mills will be subject to the Boiler MACT regulation and will be required to install new pollution control equipment in order to meet the 2007 compliance deadline. Based on currently available information, we estimate that the aggregate compliance cost for Boiler MACT will be approximately $100 million. We have spent approximately $19 million through 2005 and expect to spend approximately $43 million in 2006 and $38 million in 2007 on projects to bring us into compliance with the Boiler MACT. In addition to Cluster Rule and Boiler MACT compliance, we anticipate additional capital expenditures related to environmental compliance. Excluding the spending on Cluster Rule and Boiler MACT projects described above, for the past three years we have spent an average of approximately $14 million annually on capital expenditures for environmental purposes. Since our principal competitors are subject to comparable environmental standards, including the Cluster Rule and Boiler MACT, it is our opinion, based on current information, that compliance with environmental standards should not adversely affect our competitive position or operating results. However, we could incur significant expenditures due to changes in law or the discovery of new information, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. See Part 1, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings, Environmental Matters.” AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available free of charge our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished as required by Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), through Smurfit-Stone’s Internet Website (www.smurfit-stone.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we 7 electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You may access these SEC filings via the hyperlink that we provide on our Website to a third-party SEC filings Website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more of them occur, could adversely affect our business, our financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this report, as well as the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. We have a highly leveraged capital structure. Our substantial leverage could have significant consequences for us, including the following: • we may be required to seek additional sources of capital, including additional borrowings under our existing credit facilities, other private or public debt or equity financings to service or refinance our indebtedness, which borrowings may not be available on favorable terms, particularly in the event that our credit ratings are downgraded by rating agencies; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be needed to meet the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and other obligations and will not be available for our working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; and • our level of debt makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduces our operational and business flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions and opportunities. In addition, we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. The terms of our debt may severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. Our ability to incur additional debt, and in certain cases refinance outstanding debt, is significantly limited or restricted under the agreements relating to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if such actions may be in our best interest. These restrictions limit our ability to: • incur liens or make negative pledges on our assets; • merge, consolidate or sell our assets; • issue additional debt; • pay dividends or repurchase or redeem capital stock and prepay other debt; • make investments and acquisitions; • enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • make capital expenditures; • materially change our business; • amend our debt and other material agreements; • issue and sell capital stock; • make investments in unrestricted subsidiaries; or • prepay specified indebtedness. Our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we were unable to make this repayment or otherwise refinance these borrowings, our lenders could foreclose on our assets. If we were unable to refinance these borrowings on favorable terms, our costs of borrowing could increase significantly. Our senior debt bears interest at fixed and floating rates. Our floating interest rates currently are not capped. If interest rates rise, our senior debt interest payments also will increase. Although we may enter 8 into agreements to hedge our interest rate risk, these agreements may be inadequate to protect us fully against our interest rate risk. Our industry is cyclical and highly competitive. Our operating results reflect the industry’s general cyclical pattern. The majority of our products can be subject to extreme price competition. Some segments of our industry have production overcapacity, which may require us to take downtime periodically to reduce inventory levels during periods of weak demand. In addition, the industry is capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs and has historically resulted in continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. These conditions have contributed to substantial price competition and volatility in the industry. Decreases in prices for our products, coupled with our highly leveraged financial position, may adversely impact our ability to respond to competition and to other market conditions or to otherwise take advantage of business opportunities. The paperboard and packaging products industries are highly competitive and are particularly sensitive to price fluctuations as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the product line. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our ability to attract and retain customers could be materially adversely affected. Many of our competitors are less leveraged and have financial and other resources greater than ours and are able to better withstand the adverse nature of the business cycle. If our facilities are not as cost efficient as those of our competitors, we may need to temporarily or permanently close such facilities and suffer a consequent reduction in our revenues. Our pension plans are underfunded and will require additional cash contributions. We have made substantial contributions to our pension plans in the past three years and expect to continue to make substantial contributions in the coming years in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate in light of projected liabilities. These contributions reduce the amount of cash available for us to repay indebtedness or make capital investments. The United States Congress is considering several legislative alternatives that could require us to continue to make substantial contributions to the pension plans until the plans are fully funded, which would further limit our financial flexibility. Price fluctuations in energy costs and raw materials could adversely affect our manufacturing costs. The cost of producing our products is highly sensitive to the price of energy. Energy prices, in particular oil and natural gas, have experienced significant volatility in recent years, with a corresponding effect on our production costs. Energy prices may continue to fluctuate and may rise to higher levels in future years. This could adversely affect our production costs and results of operations. Although we may enter into agreements to hedge our energy costs, these agreements may be inadequate to protect us fully against the volatility of energy costs. To the extent we have un-hedged positions or our hedging procedures do not work as planned, fluctuating energy costs could reduce our operating profit. Wood fiber and reclaimed fiber, the principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our paper products, are purchased in highly competitive, price-sensitive markets, which have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Adverse weather, conservation regulations and the shutdown of a number of sawmills have caused, and will likely continue to cause, a decrease in the supply of wood fiber and higher wood fiber costs in some of the regions in which we procure wood fiber. Fluctuations in supply and demand for reclaimed fiber have occasionally caused tight supplies of reclaimed fiber. At such times, we may experience an increase in the cost of fiber or may temporarily have difficulty obtaining adequate supplies of fiber. 9 Factors beyond our control could hinder our ability to service our debt and meet our operating requirements. Our ability to meet our obligations and to comply with the financial covenants contained in our debt instruments will largely depend on our future performance. Our performance will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting us. Many of these factors will be beyond our control, such as: • the state of the economy; • the financial markets; • demand for, and selling prices of, our products; • performance of our major customers; • costs of raw materials and energy; • hurricanes and other major weather-related disruptions; and • legislation and other factors relating to the paperboard and packaging products industries generally or to specific competitors. If operating cash flows or net proceeds from borrowings and any divestitures and amounts from other financing sources do not provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our operating and debt service requirements, we will be required to pursue other alternatives to repay debt and improve liquidity. Such alternatives may include: • sales of assets; • cost reductions; • deferral of certain discretionary capital expenditures and benefit payments; and • seeking amendments or waivers to our debt instruments. Such measures may not be successfully completed or may not generate the liquidity required by us to operate our business and service our obligations. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required debt payments or fail to comply with our debt covenants, we would be in default under the terms of our various debt instruments. This would permit our debt holders to accelerate the maturity of such debt and would cause defaults under our other debt. We may be unable to realize the expected cost savings and revenue growth from our strategic initiative plan. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our operating and debt service requirements depends in part on our ability to execute certain strategic initiatives, which are intended to result in revenue growth and a lower cost structure through increased efficiency in our manufacturing processes. Although we have implemented several restructuring initiatives in the past, there are inherent risks related to these programs, including the closure of manufacturing facilities, disruption of business operations, inability to meet customer demand, higher costs than anticipated, environmental issues associated with the closed facilities and a failure to complete these initiatives in the time frames contemplated. The cost savings may be offset by costs incurred in restructuring our operations, as well as by increases in other expenses unrelated to the restructuring. We cannot provide assurance that the restructuring activities will achieve the full expected benefits of the cost savings or revenue enhancements within the expected time frame. We are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could weaken our operating results. Federal, state, provincial, foreign and local environmental requirements, particularly those relating to air and water quality, are a significant factor in our business. The EPA has finalized significant portions of its comprehensive rule governing air emissions (Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT)) and water discharges (Effluent Limitation Guidelines) for the pulp, paper and paperboard industry, known as the “Cluster Rule,” which has required, and will continue to require, significant capital expenditures. The EPA has also promulgated a Boiler MACT regulation that will limit particulate emissions from industrial boilers. Several of our mills will be subject to the Boiler MACT regulation and will be required to install new pollution control equipment in order to meet the 2007 compliance deadline. In the past we have had, and in the future may face, environmental liability for the costs of remediating soil or groundwater that is 10 or was contaminated by us or a third party at various sites which are now or were previously owned or operated by us. We are also engaged in legal proceedings with federal and state authorities concerning alleged violations of various discharge and emission standards. These proceedings may result in the imposition of fines or penalties as well as mandated remediation programs that may require substantial, and potentially unplanned, capital expenditures. There also may be similar liability at third party disposal sites with respect to which either we have received, or in the future may receive, notice that we may be a potentially responsible party (PRP) and which are the subject of cleanup activity under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), analogous state laws and other laws concerning hazardous substance contamination. Foreign currency risks and exchange rate fluctuations could hinder the results of our Canadian operations. Our assets and liabilities outside the United States are primarily located in Canada. Our principal foreign exchange exposure is the Canadian dollar. The functional currency for our Canadian operations is the U.S. dollar. To the extent we have un-hedged positions or our hedging procedures do not work as planned, fluctuating currencies could reduce our sales and net income. Our financial performance is directly affected by exchange rates because: • certain of our products are manufactured in Canada, but sold in U.S. dollars; and • the monetary assets and liabilities of our Canadian operations are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 11 