Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for the historical information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, certain matters discussed herein, including (without limitation) under Part I, Item 1, “Business - Environmental Compliance,” under Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and under Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although we believe that, in making any such statements, our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. When used in this document, the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends” and similar expressions as they relate to Smurfit-Stone Container Enterprises, Inc. or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, certain of which are beyond our control. These factors, risks and uncertainties are discussed in Part 1, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. Accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur or, if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. We expressly decline any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Unless the context otherwise requires, “we,” “us,” “our,” “Company” or “Smurfit-Stone Enterprises” refers to the business of Smurfit-Stone Container Enterprises, Inc. and its subsidiaries. GENERAL Smurfit-Stone Container Enterprises, Inc. (SSCE), incorporated in Delaware in 2000, is the industry’s leading integrated manufacturer of paperboard and paper-based packaging in North America, including containerboard, corrugated containers, multiwall bags and coated recycled boxboard, and is one of the world’s largest paper recyclers. In addition, we are a leading producer of solid bleached sulfate (SBS). We have a complete line of graphics capabilities for packaging. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our net sales were $7,157 million and net loss was $59 million. We are a wholly-owned subsidiary of Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation (Smurfit-Stone or SSCC), a holding company with no business operations of its own. Smurfit-Stone conducts its business operations through us. We are the surviving company resulting from the merger (the Merger) of Smurfit-Stone’s primary operating subsidiaries on November 1, 2004. JSCE, Inc. merged with and into Jefferson Smurfit Corporation (U.S.) (JSC(U.S.)), with JSC(U.S.) as the surviving company, and then JSC(U.S.) merged with and into us, with us as the surviving entity. The Merger was effected principally to consolidate debt financing activities of Smurfit-Stone and its subsidiaries. We were simultaneously renamed Smurfit-Stone Container Enterprises, Inc. We and JSC(U.S.) were wholly-owned subsidiaries of Smurfit-Stone and, therefore, the historical cost basis of the acquired entity, JSC(U.S.), carried over into us. As a result of the Merger, our financial statements for all periods presented have been restated to include the combined results of us and JSC(U.S.). The Merger did not impact the operating activities of the merged companies, which continue to do business as Smurfit-Stone. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS On June 30, 2006, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of our Consumer Packaging division to a company formed by Texas Pacific Group for $1.04 billion. Reflecting final working capital adjustments and sales transaction costs, net cash proceeds were $897 million, which excluded $130 million of accounts receivable previously sold to Stone Receivables Corporation (SRC) under our accounts receivable securitization program. We recorded a pretax gain of $171 million, offset by a $174 million income tax provision, resulting in a net loss on sale of discontinued operations of $3 million. The after-tax loss was the result of a provision for income taxes that was higher than the statutory income tax rate due to non-deductible goodwill of $273 million. The Consumer Packaging division was a reportable segment comprised of four coated recycled boxboard mills and 39 consumer packaging operations in the United States, including folding carton, multiwall and specialty bag, flexible packaging, label, contract packaging and lamination businesses and one consumer packaging plant in Brampton, Ontario. Net sales for these operations were $787 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006, and $1,584 million and $1,575 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively. These facilities employed approximately 6,600 hourly and salaried employees. The results of operations of the Consumer Packaging segment have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS As a result of the sale of our Consumer Packaging division, we have one reportable segment, Containerboard and Corrugated Containers. For financial information relating to our segments for the last three fiscal years, including our net sales to external customers by country of origin and total assets, see the information set forth in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 PRODUCTS CONTAINERBOARD AND CORRUGATED CONTAINERS SEGMENT The Containerboard and Corrugated Containers segment includes 19 paper mills (16 located in the United States and three in Canada), 136 container plants (113 located in the United States, 16 in Canada, four in Mexico, two in China and one in Puerto Rico), one paper tube and core plant and one wood products plant located in the United States and one lamination plant located in Canada. In addition, we have equity ownership in three corrugated container plants in Asia (two in China and one in Thailand), as well as two sheet plants and a lithographic printing plant in China. Also, we own approximately one million acres of timberland in Canada and operate wood harvesting facilities in Canada and the United States. The primary products of our Containerboard and Corrugated Containers segment include: · corrugated containers; · containerboard; · SBS; · kraft paper; and · market pulp. We produce a full range of high quality corrugated containers designed to protect, ship, store and display products made to our customers’ merchandising and distribution specifications. Corrugated containers are sold to a broad range of manufacturers of consumer goods. Corrugated containers are used to ship such diverse products as home appliances, electric motors, small machinery, grocery products, produce, computers, books, furniture and many other products. We provide customers with innovative packaging solutions to advertise and sell their products. In addition, we manufacture and sell a variety of retail ready, point of purchase displays and a full line of specialty products, including pizza boxes, corrugated clamshells for the food industry, Cordeck® recyclable pallets and custom die-cut boxes to display packaged merchandise on the sales floor. Our container plants serve local customers and large national accounts. Net sales of corrugated containers for 2006, 2005 and 2004 represented 64%, 65% and 65%, respectively, of the Company’s total net sales. Our containerboard mills produce a full line of containerboard, which is used primarily in the production of corrugated packaging. We produced 3,663,000 tons of unbleached kraft linerboard, 995,000 tons of white top linerboard and 2,744,000 tons of medium in 2006. Our containerboard mills and corrugated container operations are highly integrated, with the majority of our containerboard used internally by our corrugated container operations. In 2006, our corrugated container plants consumed 5,300,000 tons of containerboard. Net sales of containerboard to third parties for 2006, 2005 and 2004 represented 24%, 23% and 23%, respectively, of the Company’s total net sales. Our paper mills also produce SBS, kraft paper, market pulp and other specialty products. We specialize in high-quality grades of SBS, which are designed to meet the demanding print requirements of folding carton and carded packaging customers in the food, pharmaceutical, cosmetics and other niche markets. Kraft paper is used in numerous products, including consumer and industrial bags, grocery and shopping bags, counter rolls, handle stock and refuse bags. In addition, we produce bleached northern and southern hardwood pulp and bleached southern softwood pulp, which is sold to manufacturers of paper products, including photographic and other specialty papers, as well as the printing and writing sectors. 3 Production for our paper mills and sales volume for our corrugated container facilities for the last three years were: 2006 2005 2004 Tons produced (in thousands) Containerboard 7,402 7,215 7,438 SBS 313 283 276 Kraft paper 199 204 259 Market pulp 564 563 549 Corrugated containers sold (in billion sq. ft.) (1) 80.0 81.3 81.8 (1) Includes our proportionate share of affiliates reported on an equity ownership basis. NON-REPORTABLE SEGMENT Reclamation Our reclamation operations procure fiber resources for our paper mills as well as other producers. We operate 23 reclamation facilities in the United States that collect, sort, grade and bale recovered paper. We also collect aluminum and plastics for resale to manufacturers of these products. In addition, we operate a nationwide brokerage system whereby we purchase and resell recovered paper to our recycled paper mills and other producers on a regional and national contract basis. Our waste reduction services extract additional recyclables from the waste stream by partnering with customers to reduce their waste expenses and increase efficiencies. Brokerage contracts provide bulk purchasing, often resulting in lower prices and cleaner recovered paper. Many of our reclamation facilities are located close to our recycled paper mills, ensuring availability of supply with minimal shipping costs. Total tons of fiber reclaimed and brokered for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 6,614,000, 6,501,000 and 6,542,000, respectively. In 2006, our paper mills consumed 2,891,000 tons of the fiber reclaimed and brokered by our reclamation operations, representing an integration level of approximately 44%. RAW MATERIALS Wood fiber and reclaimed fiber are the principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our paper products. We satisfy the majority of our need for wood fiber through purchases on the open market or under supply agreements. We satisfy essentially all of our need for reclaimed fiber through our reclamation facilities and nationwide brokerage system. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Our marketing strategy is to sell a broad range of paper-based packaging products to manufacturers of industrial and consumer products. We seek to meet the quality and service needs of the customers of our converting plants at the most efficient cost, while balancing those needs against the demands of our open market paperboard customers. Our converting plants focus on supplying both specialized packaging with high value graphics that enhance a product’s market appeal and high-volume commodity products. We serve a broad customer base for each of our segments. As a result, we serve thousands of accounts from our plants. We sell packaging and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through resellers. In 2005, in response to challenging market conditions we reorganized our corrugated container sales organization to centralize the sales responsibilities for all converting plants. This reorganization has allowed us to better focus on revenue growth and assign the appropriate resources to the best opportunities. Marketing of containerboard and pulp to third parties is centralized in our board sales group. Total tons of containerboard and market pulp sold in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 3,093,000, 2,651,000 and 2,840,000, respectively. Our business is not dependent upon a single customer or upon a small number of major customers. We do not believe the loss of any one customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. 4 COMPETITION The markets in which we sell our principal products are highly competitive and comprised of many participants. Although no single company is dominant, we do face significant competitors, including large vertically integrated companies as well as numerous smaller companies. The markets in which we compete have historically been sensitive to price fluctuations brought about by shifts in industry capacity and other cyclical industry conditions. While we compete primarily on the basis of price in many of our product lines, other competitive factors include design, quality and service, with varying emphasis depending on product line. BACKLOG Demand for our major product lines is relatively constant throughout the year, and seasonal fluctuations in marketing, production, shipments and inventories are not significant. Backlog orders are not a significant factor in the industry. We do not have a significant backlog of orders as most orders are placed for delivery within 30 days. RESEARCH AND NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The majority of our research and development activities are performed at our facilities located in Carol Stream and Westmont, Illinois. We use advanced technology to assist all levels of the manufacturing and sales processes, from raw material supply through finished packaging performance. Research programs have provided improvements in coatings and barriers, stiffeners, inks and printing. Our technical staff conducts basic, applied and diagnostic research, develops processes and products and provides a wide range of other technical services. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, we spent approximately $4 million, $9 million and $8 million, respectively, on research and new product development activities. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We actively pursue applications for patents on new inventions and designs and attempt to protect our patents against infringement. Nevertheless, we believe our success and growth are more dependent on the quality of our products and our relationships with customers than on the extent of our patent protection. We hold or are licensed to use certain patents, licenses, trademarks and trade names on products, but do not consider the successful continuation of any material aspect of our business to be dependent upon such intellectual property. EMPLOYEES We had approximately 25,200 employees at December 31, 2006, of which approximately 20,100 were employees of U.S. operations. Approximately 12,100 (60%) of our U.S. employees are represented by collective bargaining units. The expiration dates of union contracts for our major paper mill facilities are as follows: · Missoula, Montana - June 2007 · Hopewell, Virginia - July 2007 · Brewton, Alabama - - October 2007 · Panama City, Florida - March 2008 · Fernandina Beach, Florida - June 2008 · West Point, Virginia - September 2008 · Pontiac, Quebec, Canada - April 2009 · Florence, South Carolina - August 2009 · La Tuque, Quebec, Canada - August 2009 · Hodge, Louisiana - June 2010 · Jacksonville, Florida - June 2010 We believe our employee relations are generally good. While the terms of our collective bargaining agreements may vary, we believe the material terms of the agreements are customary for the industry, the type of facility, the classification of the employees and the geographic location covered thereby. 5 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities. In the past, we have made significant capital expenditures to comply with water, air, solid and hazardous waste and other environmental laws and regulations. We expect to make significant expenditures in the future for environmental compliance. Because various environmental standards are subject to change, it is difficult to predict with certainty the amount of capital expenditures that will ultimately be required to comply with future standards. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued its comprehensive rule governing air emissions (Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT)) and water discharges for the pulp, paper and paperboard industry known as the “Cluster Rule.” Phase II of MACT I of the Cluster Rule requires us to implement systems to collect and control high volume, low concentration gases at various mills and had a compliance date of April 16, 2006, although certain of our mills were granted one-year extensions to April 16, 2007. Based on currently available information, we estimate that the aggregate compliance cost of Phase II of MACT I of the Cluster Rule will be approximately $80 million. We have spent approximately $65 million through 2006 and we anticipate spending the balance in the first quarter of 2007, which will substantially complete all of the projects to bring us into compliance with Phase II of MACT I. The EPA has also promulgated a MACT regulation that will limit hazardous air pollutant emissions, including emissions of mercury and hydrogen chloride, from certain industrial boilers (Boiler MACT). Several of our mills are required to install new pollution control equipment in order to meet the September 13, 2007 compliance deadline. Based on currently available information, we estimate that the aggregate compliance cost of Boiler MACT will be approximately $100 million. We have spent approximately $50 million through 2006 and we anticipate spending the balance by the compliance deadline, which will substantially complete all of the projects to bring us into compliance with Boiler MACT. In addition to Cluster Rule and Boiler MACT compliance, we anticipate additional capital expenditures related to environmental compliance. Excluding the spending on Cluster Rule and Boiler MACT projects described above, for the past three years we have spent an average of approximately $12 million annually on capital expenditures for environmental purposes. Since our principal competitors are subject to comparable environmental standards, including the Cluster Rule and Boiler MACT, it is our opinion, based on current information, that compliance with environmental standards should not adversely affect our competitive position or operating results. However, we could incur significant expenditures due to changes in law or the discovery of new information, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. See Part 1, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings, Environmental Matters.” AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available free of charge our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished as required by Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), through Smurfit-Stone’s Internet Website (www.smurfit-stone.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You may access these SEC filings via the hyperlink that Smurfit-Stone provides on its Website to a third-party SEC filings Website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more of them occur, could adversely affect our business, our financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this report, as well as the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business. 6 We have a highly leveraged capital structure. Our substantial leverage could have significant consequences for us, including the following: · we may be required to seek additional sources of capital, including additional borrowings under our existing credit facilities, other private or public debt or equity financings to service or refinance our indebtedness, which borrowings may not be available on favorable terms, particularly in the event that our credit ratings are downgraded by rating agencies; · a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be needed to meet the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and other obligations and will not be available for our working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; and · our level of debt makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduces our operational and business flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions and opportunities. In addition, we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. The terms of our debt may severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. Our ability to incur additional debt, and in certain cases refinance outstanding debt, is significantly limited or restricted under the agreements relating to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if such actions may be in our best interest. These restrictions limit our ability to: · incur liens or make negative pledges on our assets; · merge, consolidate or sell our assets; · issue additional debt; · pay dividends or repurchase or redeem capital stock · make investments and acquisitions; · enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; · make capital expenditures; · materially change our business; · amend our debt and other material agreements; · issue and sell capital stock; · make investments in unrestricted subsidiaries; or · prepay specified indebtedness or other debt. Our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we were unable to make this repayment or otherwise refinance these borrowings, our lenders could foreclose on our assets. If we were unable to refinance these borrowings on favorable terms, our costs of borrowing could increase significantly. Our senior debt bears interest at fixed and floating rates. Currently, only a portion of our floating interest rate debt is capped. If interest rates rise, our senior debt interest payments also will increase. Although we may enter into agreements to hedge our interest rate risk, these agreements may be inadequate to protect us fully against our interest rate risk. Our industry is cyclical and highly competitive. Our operating results reflect the industry’s general cyclical pattern. The majority of our products can be subject to extreme price competition. Some segments of our industry have production overcapacity, which may require us to take downtime periodically to reduce inventory levels during periods of weak demand. In addition, the industry is capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs and has historically resulted in continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover marginal costs. These conditions have contributed to substantial price competition and volatility in the industry. Decreases in prices for our products, coupled with our highly leveraged financial position, 7 may adversely impact our ability to respond to competition and to other market conditions or to otherwise take advantage of business opportunities. The paperboard and packaging products industries are highly competitive and are particularly sensitive to price fluctuations as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the product line. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our ability to attract and retain customers could be materially adversely affected. Many of our competitors are less leveraged, have financial and other resources greater than ours and are more capable to withstand the adverse nature of the business cycle. If our facilities are not as cost efficient as those of our competitors, we may need to temporarily or permanently close such facilities and suffer a consequent reduction in our revenues. Our pension plans are underfunded and will require additional cash contributions. We have made substantial contributions to our pension plans in the past five years and expect to continue to make substantial contributions in the coming years in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate in light of projected liabilities and to meet the requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006. These contributions reduce the amount of cash available for us to repay indebtedness or make capital investments. Price fluctuations in energy costs and raw materials could adversely affect our manufacturing costs. The cost of producing and transporting our products is highly sensitive to the price of energy. Energy prices, in particular oil and natural gas, have experienced significant volatility in recent years, with a corresponding effect on our production costs. Energy prices may continue to fluctuate and may rise to higher levels in future years. This could adversely affect our production costs and results of operations. Although we may enter into agreements to hedge our energy costs, these agreements may be inadequate to protect us fully against the volatility of energy costs. To the extent we have positions that are not hedged or our hedging procedures do not perform as planned, fluctuating energy costs could reduce our operating profit. Wood fiber and reclaimed fiber, the principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our paper products, are purchased in highly competitive, price-sensitive markets, which have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Adverse weather, conservation regulations and the shutdown of a number of sawmills have caused, and will likely continue to cause, a decrease in the supply of wood fiber and higher wood fiber costs in some of the regions in which we procure wood fiber. Fluctuations in supply and demand for reclaimed fiber have occasionally caused tight supplies of reclaimed fiber. At such times, we may experience an increase in the cost of fiber or may temporarily have difficulty obtaining adequate supplies of fiber. Factors beyond our control could hinder our ability to service our debt and meet our operating requirements. Our ability to meet our obligations and to comply with the financial covenants contained in our debt instruments will largely depend on our future performance. Our performance will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting us. Many of these factors are beyond our control, such as: · the state of the economy; · the financial markets; · demand for, and selling prices of, our products; · performance of our major customers; · costs of raw materials and energy; · hurricanes and other major weather-related disruptions; and · legislation and other factors relating to the paperboard and packaging products industries generally or to specific competitors. 8 If operating cash flows or net proceeds from borrowings, any divestitures and other financing sources do not provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our operating and debt service requirements, we will be required to pursue other alternatives to repay debt and improve liquidity. Such alternatives may include: · sales of assets; · cost reductions; · deferral of certain discretionary capital expenditures and benefit payments; and · amendments or waivers to our debt instruments. We might not successfully complete any of these measures or they may not generate the liquidity we require to operate our business and service our obligations. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required debt payments or we fail to comply with our debt covenants, we would be in default under the terms of our various debt instruments. This would permit our debt holders to accelerate the maturity of such debt and would cause defaults under our other debt. We may not realize the cost savings we expect from our strategic initiatives. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our operating and debt service requirements depends in part on our ability to execute certain strategic initiatives, which are intended to result in a lower cost structure through increased efficiency in our manufacturing processes. Although we have implemented several restructuring initiatives in the past, there are inherent risks related to these programs. These risks include the closure of manufacturing facilities, disruption of business operations, inability to meet customer demand, higher costs than anticipated, environmental issues associated with the closed facilities and a failure to complete these initiatives in the time frames contemplated. Costs incurred in restructuring our operations, as well as increases in other expenses unrelated to the restructuring, might offset any cost savings. We cannot provide assurance that the restructuring activities will achieve the full expected benefits of the cost savings within the expected time frame. We are subject to environmental regulations and liabilities that could weaken our operating results and financial condition. Federal, state, provincial, foreign and local environmental requirements, particularly those relating to air and water quality, are a significant factor in our business. The EPA has issued a comprehensive rule governing air emissions (Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT)) and water discharges (Effluent Limitation Guidelines) for the pulp, paper and paperboard industry, known as the “Cluster Rule,” which has required significant capital expenditures. Substantially all Cluster Rule spending will be incurred by the end of the first quarter of 2007. The EPA has also promulgated a Boiler MACT regulation that will limit hazardous air pollutant emissions from industrial boilers. Several of our mills are subject to the Boiler MACT regulation and are required to install new pollution control equipment in order to meet the September 13, 2007 compliance deadline. Changes in existing environmental laws or the promulgation of new environmental laws may require capital expenditures for compliance. In the past we have had, and in the future we may face, environmental liability for the costs of remediating soil or groundwater that we or a third party contaminated at various sites that we currently own or operate or previously owned or operated. There may be liability at third party sites with respect to which we either have received, or in the future may receive, notice that we may be a potentially responsible party (PRP) and which are the subject of cleanup activity under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), analogous state laws and other laws concerning hazardous substance contamination. Ongoing remediation costs and future remediation liability may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Foreign currency risks and exchange rate fluctuations could hinder the results of our Canadian operations. Our assets and liabilities outside the United States are primarily located in Canada. Our principal foreign exchange exposure is the Canadian dollar. The functional currency for our Canadian operations is the U.S. dollar. To the extent we have un-hedged positions or our hedging procedures do not perform as 9 planned, fluctuating currencies could reduce our sales and net income. Our financial performance is directly affected by exchange rates because: · certain of our products are manufactured in Canada, but sold in U.S. dollars; and · the monetary assets and liabilities of our Canadian operations are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 10 