D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves significant risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business Risks Related to the Italian PV Projects Our business depends to a large extent on the availability of financial incentives. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives could reduce our profitability and adversely impact our revenues and growth prospects. Many countries, such as Germany, Spain, Italy, France, Portugal and Japan, offer substantial incentives to offset the cost of photovoltaic power systems in the form of feed-in tariffs (“FiT”) or other incentives to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependence on other forms of energy. These government incentives could potentially be reduced or eliminated altogether. Currently, PV plants connected within May 31, 2011 will benefit from the incentives. If the Italian government does not extend the incentive plan or elects to fix a certain cap for subsidized plants connected after May 31, 2011, this will adversely affect the profitability from any new photovoltaic plants developed by us, and may prevent us from continuing to invest in the PV market in Italy. In general, uncertainty about the introduction of, reduction in or elimination of incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable laws could substantially affect our profitability and adversely affect our ability to continue and develop new photovoltaic plants. In addition, if we fail to build the photovoltaic plants currently constructed as part of the PV Projects as planned, we could lose our right to these incentives which could substantially affect our profitability. 11 Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the construction and operation of our photovoltaic power plants, which may significantly reduce our profitability. Installation of photovoltaic power systems is subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with international, European, national and local ordinances, building codes, zoning, environmental protection regulation, utility interconnection requirements and other rules and regulations. For example, various governmental, municipal and other regulatory entities subject the installation and operation of the plants, and any other component of the PV Projects, to the issuance of relevant permits, licenses and authorizations. If such permits, licenses and authorizations are not issued, or are issued but not on a timely basis, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of one or more of our Italian PV Projects, or may require making significant changes to one or more of our PV Projects, any of which may cause severe losses. New government regulations or utility policies pertaining to photovoltaic power systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in profitability. For example, total installations caps in certain jurisdictions effectively limit the aggregate amount of power that is entitled to receive the prevailing FiT. The government regulations are also subject to judicial review that may void certain of the benefits or governmental incentives intended to expedite construction of photovoltaic plants. For example, an Italian court recently annulled a regional law that enabled certain photovoltaic plants to be built under a self-certification, and therefore shorter, procedure. Although this specific resolution does not apply to the PV Projects, other judicial resolutions may in the future impact the profitability and availability of incentives applicable to the PV Projects. Our involvement and investment in future projects similar to the PV Projects, in Italy or elsewhere, is substantially dependent on the regulation and changes in the regulation that applies and will apply to such projects in the locations we choose. Prior to entering into additional projects similar to the PV Projects, we will have to ensure that the regulatory framework that will apply to the prospective projects and the thresholds set forth in such regulation (both with respect to timing and energy output) are such that the prospective projects are expected to yield the returns we are interested in. As this regulation is subject to changes, we cannot ensure that the current regulation will be applicable to any future projects and that we will meet the schedule and other requirements set forth in current and future regulations. For example, a new decree that entered into force on March 29, 2011 in Italy substantially shortens the period for applying the FiT that is set forth in the current regulations. Although this type of regulation usually does not apply to projects that are in progress we cannot be sure that the Italian regulator will not consider such projects in future regulation. Any changes in the incentive regime could significantly decrease the expected return on the investment in new projects (or certain projects that have commenced but are not yet in an advanced stage) and therefore our results of operations with respect to existing projects and our interest in new projects. 12 We have limited experience and limited independent expertise in the field of photovoltaic power plants, and are extensively reliant on our professional advisors and on our Contractors for the construction, operation and maintenance of the PV Projects. We have limited experience and have limited independent expertise in the field of operations relating to the PV Projects, that is, the construction, installation, testing, commissioning, operation and maintenance of photovoltaic power plants and the supply of electricity to customers, whether in Italy or elsewhere. Our limited experience only relates to our recent involvement with the PV Projects. Accordingly, we are extensively dependent upon our professional advisors (such as technical, legal and insurance experts) and on our Contractors’ representations, warranties and undertakings regarding, inter alia: the execution and implementation of each of the PV Projects, the Contractors’ expertise and experience, the use of high-quality materials, securing land use rights and obtaining applicable permits, obtaining the incentive agreement in order to secure the FiT for the production and delivery of power to the national electricity grid through our photovoltaic power plants, obtaining the power purchase agreement for the sale of the produced electricity to the Italian energy company, obtaining the interconnection agreement with the national electricity grid operator, the commissioning of power plants that are fit for long-term use, strict compliance with applicable legal requirements, our Contractors’ financial stability and the profitability of the venture. If the advice received from our professional advisors is inaccurate, incomplete or otherwise flawed, or if the Contractors’ representations or warranties are inaccurate or untrue, or if any of the Contractors defaults on its obligations, or provides us with a system that is not free from defect which causes a delay in the implementation of the PV Projects, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of any or all of the PV Projects, or may require making significant changes to the PV Projects, any of which may cause us to incur severe losses. There is also no assurance that we could locate an alternative contractor in the place of a deficient contractor in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. We are dependent on the suppliers that supply the panels that will be installed in our photovoltaic plants. The lack of reliability of such suppliers or of their products, as well as such suppliers’ insolvency, may have an adverse effect on our business. Our photovoltaic plant performance depends on the quality of the panels installed. One of the critical factors in the success of our photovoltaic plants is the existence of reliable panel suppliers, who guarantee the performance and quality of the panels supplied. Degradation in such performance above a certain minimum level is guaranteed by the panel suppliers, however, if any of the suppliers is unreliable or becomes insolvent, it may default on warranty obligations, and such default may cause an interruption in our business or reduction in the generation of energy power, and thus may have an adverse effect on us. Delays in the construction of the PV Plants may result in loss of our eligibility to receive feed-in-tariffs or impede our ability to obtain financing at terms beneficial to us, or at all, and therefore may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. We have experienced delays in the completion of the construction of the PV Plants in four of our PV Projects. Although the EPC Contracts that govern these PV Projects include a system of liquidated damages and price reductions that apply in the event of delays or loss of certain FiT, these remedies are limited and may not completely offset the damages caused to us. Our limited ability to protect ourselves against damages caused due to delays, as well as any additional delays, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. 13 Success of the PV Projects, from the construction of the power plants through their commissioning and ongoing commercial operation, will depend to a large extent on the cooperation, reliability, solvency, and proper performance of the Contractors and of the other third parties involved, including subcontractors, financing entities, the land developer and land owners, suppliers of parts and equipment, the energy grid regulator, Italian governmental agencies and other potential purchasers of electricity, and the like. The PV Projects are a complex endeavor requiring timely input often of a highly specialized technical nature, from several parties, including without limitation, the main supplier and contemplated plant operator, other suppliers of relevant parts and materials, the land developer and land owners, subcontractors, financing entities, the Italian government and related agency both as subsidizer and as the purchaser of the electricity to be generated by the power plants and Italian energy regulators. We have experienced delays in four of our six PV Projects. If any of these parties fails to perform its obligations properly and on a timely basis, at any point in any of the PV Projects, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of the relevant PV Project, or may require making significant changes to the relevant PV Project, any of which may cause us severe losses. Our ability to leverage our investment and to increase the return on our equity investments depends, inter alia, on our ability to obtain attractive financing from financial entities. Our ability to obtain financing and the terms of such financing, including interest rates, equity to debt ratio and timing of debt availability will significantly impact the return on our equity investments in the PV Projects. Although we have entered into financing agreements with respect to four of the six PV Projects, there is no assurance that we will be able to procure financing for the remaining two PV Projects or any future PV projects, on terms favorable to us or at all. In the event we will be unable to continuously comply with the obligations and undertakings, including with respect to financial covenants, which we undertook in connection with the financing of the PV Projects, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In connection with the financing of several of our PV Projects, we have entered into long-term agreements with outside sources of financing, including a bank and a leasing company. The agreements that govern the provision of financing include, inter alia, undertakings and financial covenants that we are required to maintain for the duration of such financing agreements. In the event we fail to comply with any of these undertakings and covenants, we may be subject to penalties, future financing requirements, and, finally, to the acceleration of the repayment of debt. These occurrences may have an adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations and on our ability to obtain outside financing for other projects. We and/or any of the respective Contractors may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others with respect to the system components used in the PV Projects, which could prohibit us from implementing and profiting from the PV Projects as contemplated, require us and/or the respective Contractor to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives and subject us and/or the respective Contractor to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. The solar photovoltaic industry is characterized by the existence of patents that could result in frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. The owners of these patents may assert that the manufacture, use, import, or sale of any part or component of the PV Projects, or the PV Projects as a whole, infringes one or more claims of their patents. Whether or not such claims and applications are valid, we cannot be certain that the components of our system do not infringe the intellectual property rights of such third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs, substantial damages and an interruption, suspension or cessation of any or all of the PV Project. Even if the holders of the patents do not succeed in their claims of misappropriation or infringement, the litigation process involving patent infringement is very expensive and lengthy and sometimes involves temporary injunctions and could therefore materially affect our profitability and operating results. 14 A drop in the retail price of conventional or other energy sources may negatively impact our ability to expand. The decision to provide regulatory incentives for the construction of photovoltaic power plants, including through the provision of FiT, is also driven by the price of electricity produced by solar power systems compared to the price of electricity produced by conventional or other energy sources. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels, could cause the demand for solar power systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our ability to expand our photovoltaic business should we wish to do so, and may cause a reduction in the governmental economic incentives. Photovoltaic power plant installations have increased over the past few years. If such trend continues, the increasing demand may drive up the prices of solar panels and other components of the system (such as invertors, steel and cables), impacting our profitability. Additionally, if there is a shortage of key components necessary for the production of the solar panels, that may constrain our revenue growth. The demand for solar panels and other components of the photovoltaic system will likely increase in the future, especially if economic recovery continues, resulting in an increase in the pricing of solar panels and/or other components of the system to the extent the supply of such equipment will not be sufficiently increased as well. Should we decide to expand the business and construct additional plants over time, such increases may adversely affect our profitability. Silicon is a dominant component of the solar panels, and although manufacturing abilities have increased over-time, any shortage of silicon, or any other material component necessary for the manufacture of the solar panels, may adversely affect our business. Our ability to produce solar power is dependent upon the magnitude and duration of sunlight as well as other meteorological factors. As such, the power production has a seasonal cycle, and adverse meteorological conditions can have a material impact on the plant’s output and could result in production of electricity below expected output. This in turn could adversely affect our profitability. As electric power accounts for a growing share of overall energy use, the market for solar energy is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. Many of our competitors who strive to construct new photovoltaic power plants have established more prominent market positions and are more experienced in this field. If we fail to attract and retain ongoing relationships with photovoltaic plants developers, we will be unable to reach additional agreements for the development and operation of additional photovoltaic plants. This could adversely impact our revenues and growth prospects. 15 Risks Relating to Our Investment in Dori Energy We hold a minority stake in Dori Energy, who, in turn, holds a minority stake in Dorad. Therefore, we have no control and limited influence on the operations and actions of Dorad. Following the consummation of the Dori Investment in January 2011, we hold 40% of the equity of Dori Energy who, in turn, holds 18.75% of Dorad (both as defined in “Item 4.A. History and Development of Ellomay”). Although we entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the other shareholder of Dori Energy providing us with joint control of Dori Energy, differences of opinion as to the management, prospects and operations of Dori Energy could limit our ability to direct the operations of Dori Energy in what we believe to be is best for such company. In addition, Dori Energy holds a minority stake in Dorad and as of the date hereof is entitled to nominate only one director in Dorad. We therefore have no control and limited influence on Dorad’s operations. These factors could potentially adversely impact the business and operations of Dorad and Dori Energy and, in turn, our business and operations. The Dori Energy Shareholders Agreement contains restrictions on our right to transfer our holdings in Dori Energy, which may make it difficult for us to terminate our involvement with Dori Energy. In connection with our investment in Dori Energy, we entered into a shareholders agreement with Dori Energy and the other shareholder of Dori Energy, U. Dori Group Ltd. (the “Dori SHA”). The Dori SHA contains several restrictions on our ability to transfer our holdings in Dori Energy, including a “restriction period” during which we are not allowed to transfer our holdings in Dori Energy (other than to permitted transferees) and, thereafter, certain mechanisms such as a right of first refusal. Therefore, in the event we wish, for various reasons, to terminate our involvement with Dori Energy, the aforesaid restrictions may make it difficult for us to terminate our involvement with Dori Energy. These limitations may adversely affect the return on our investment in Dori Energy. Non-compliance of the other shareholder of Dori Energy with its undertakings in connection with the financing of Dorad’s operations may impose obligations on us and adversely affect our financial condition. The Dori Investment Agreement contains various undertakings by the Dori Group in connection with future financing of Dori Energy’s financial obligations to Dorad, including an undertaking to provide financing should financing not be obtained from outside sources. Noncompliance by Dori Group of this or any of its other undertakings to us and to Dori Energy in the Dori Investment Agreement may cause a breach of Dori Energy’s undertakings to Dorad or impose additional financing requirements on us, which may adversely affect Dori Energy’s operations or our financial position. Dorad, which is currently the only asset held by Dori Energy, is involved in a complex project that includes the construction and thereafter the management, of the Dorad power plant, and its successful operations and profitability is dependent on a variety of factors, many of which are not within Dorad’s control. Dorad is involved in the construction of a combined cycle power station based on natural gas, with a production capacity of approximately 800 MW, on the premises of the Eilat-Ashkelon Pipeline Company (EAPC) located south of Ashkelon, Israel (the “Dorad Project”). The Dorad Project is subject to various complex agreements with third parties (the Israeli Electric Company – “IEI”, the contractor, suppliers, private customers, etc.) and to regulatory restrictions and guidelines in connection with, among other issues, the tariffs paid by the IEI to Dorad for the energy produced. Various factors and events, both during the construction period of the Dorad Project and during the operations of such project, may materially adversely affect Dorad’s results of operations and profitability and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on Dori Energy’s and our results of operations and profitability. These factors and events include: · The Dorad Project is entering the construction phase and during such period Dorad is exposed to various risks, including, without limitation, in connection with noncompliance or breach by the contractor involved in the construction, noncompliance by Dorad or any of its shareholders with their undertaking to finance the Dorad Project, resulting in fines and penalties being imposed on Dorad, defects or delays in the construction due to the contractor or outside events and delays in supply of equipment required for the construction of the Dorad Project; 16 · Following the construction of the Dorad Project, and during its operations, the profitability of Dorad will depend, among other things, on the tariff that will be paid to it by the IEI, which is governed by Israeli regulation and is therefore subject to changes and updates in the future that may not necessarily involve negotiations or consultation with Dorad. Furthermore, the profitability of Dorad will also depend on the income from other end-users that will purchase energy directly from Dorad based on tariffs negotiated between Dorad and such end-users and on the balance and mixture of sales to end-users and to the IEI. The competitive landscape, involving both the IEI and other private energy producers, is also a factor that is expected to have bearing on the profitability of Dorad; · Dorad’s operations are mainly financed by a consortium of financing entities pursuant to long-term credit facility. Changes in the credit ratings of Dorad and its shareholders, non-compliance with financing and other covenants and additional factors may affect the prevailing interest rates and therefore may adversely affect Dorad’s operations and profitability; and · The Dorad Project is located in Ashkelon, which is a town in the southern part of Israel, in proximity to the Gaza Strip. The location of the Dorad Project is within range of missile strikes from the Gaza Strip. Any such attacks to the area or any direct damage to the location of the Dorad Project may disrupt the construction of the Dorad Project and thereafter its operations, and may cause financial losses and delays. Furthermore, various geopolitical factors may also impact the availability of Gas to the Dorad Project, which may have an adverse effect on the profitability of Dorad's operation. Risks Related to our Other Activities We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating additional suitable business opportunities in the fields that we are concentrating on. Except with respect to the agreements necessary or incidental to the PV Projects and the investments in Israeli companies and licenses during the recent months described herein, we do not have an agreement or understanding with any third party with respect to our future operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities and we expect to incur expenses in connection with this identification and evaluation process, whether or not such process results in an investment of our funds. We may enter into an investment agreement in a business entity having no significant operating history or other negative characteristics such as having limited earnings or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets and negative net worth. We may also pursue business opportunities that will not necessarily provide us with significant financial benefits in the short or long term. In the event that we complete an investment, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the performance of management of the target company (or the ability to successfully outsource certain management functions) and our ability to retain such management and numerous other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to us, or at all. 17 If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of target businesses that we would intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process, such that in practice our due diligence efforts may be more limited in scope and extent. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business, we cannot assure you that this due diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our due diligence review fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and may not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our ordinary shares. The current general economic and business conditions around the world and any subsequent economic downturn may adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination, the prospects of any business we may acquire and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Since mid-2008, due to the severity of the crisis affecting financial institutions in the United States and throughout the world, the rising costs of various commodities, the limited growth and economic development in the United States and throughout the world, as well as the recession, the general economic and business conditions in many countries around the world worsened, affecting, among other things, credit ratings of borrowers, the perceived and actual credit risks faced by lenders and purchasers of debt securities, the solvency of trade partners, market entities’ appetite for risk, the spending habits of consumers, the ability to procure financing. Although during 2010, in certain markets, including the United States and portions of Europe the general economic and business conditions around the world have shown indications of recovery, there is no assurance that this will continue over the short, medium or long term, or that the recession will be overcome in its entirety, or that any of the trends associated with such recession will be reversed in whole or in part. Furthermore, if any further economic downturns ensue, this may adversely affect our ability to procure financing required for prospective business combinations, the value of businesses we acquire and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if such economic downturn occurs, it may also affect the trading prices of securities in various capital markets around the world and may significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. We may not be able to consummate investments and acquisitions that will be beneficial to our shareholders. We expect to encounter significant competition from entities having a business objective similar to ours, including our existing competitors in the solar energy field. Many of these potential competitors are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business opportunities in the renewable energy field. Such entities may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. 18 Our ability to successfully effect business combinations or acquisitions and to be successful thereafter will be significantly dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Several of our key personnel allocate their time to other businesses. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination or acquisition is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including Shlomo Nehama, our chairman of the board, Ran Fridrich, a director and our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our board of directors. Although we have entered into a Management Services Agreement with entities affiliated with three of our board members, including Messrs. Nehama and Fridrich, these and our other directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. If our directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. As a substantial part of our business is currently located in Europe, we are subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We currently have substantial operations in Italy and may make additional investments in businesses, located outside of Israel or the United States. Due to these operations and any additional future investments, we are subject to special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the other jurisdiction, including rules and regulations, currency conversion, corporate withholding taxes, tariffs and trade barriers, regulations related to customs and import/export matters, different payment cycles, tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to Israel and the United States, currency fluctuations and exchange controls, challenges in collecting accounts receivable, cultural and language differences, employment regulations, crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars and deterioration of political relations with Israel. The PV Projects subject us to a number of these risks, as well as the requirement to comply with Italian and European Union law. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. Currency fluctuations may affect the value of our assets and decrease our earnings. Substantially all of the consideration for the sale of our business to HP was paid to us in US$. However, most of our investments so far have been, and some of our retained assets and liabilities are, denominated in other currencies (Euro and NIS). The devaluation of the United States Dollar against the Euro or the NIS, and other currency fluctuations may decrease the value of our assets and could impact our business. Risks Relating to the Results and Effects of the HP Transaction If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. As a result of the HP Transaction, since February 2008, our assets mainly consist of cash and cash equivalents producing passive income. Under the PFIC rules, for any taxable year that our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed specified levels, we will be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders, which may include having certain distributions on our ordinary shares and gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of sales of our ordinary shares and certain distributions. 19 As our assets and income in 2009 and 2010 exceeded the PFIC specified levels, we have not met the requirements set forth in Section 1298(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, providing an exception from the PFIC status for a “change of business” situation for our 2008 taxable year. Therefore, we believe that we are a PFIC with respect to any U.S. shareholder that held our shares in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Since the determination of our PFIC status in 2011 (for shareholders that acquire our ordinary shares in 2011) depends on the type of assets we hold during the year and the income derived from such assets, we cannot determine as of yet whether or not we will be a PFIC for the 2011 tax year. Certain elections may be made to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our shares, but these elections may be detrimental to the shareholder under certain circumstances. The PFIC rules are extremely complex and U.S. investors are urged to consult independent tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our classification as a PFIC. For a more detailed discussion of the consequences of our being classified as a PFIC, see “Item 10.E: Taxation” under the caption “U.S. Tax Considerations Regarding Ordinary Shares.” We may be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. As a result of the HP Transaction, we could be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) if we invest more than 40% of our assets in “investment securities,” as defined in the Investment Company Act. Investments in securities of majority owned subsidiaries (defined for these purposes as companies in which we control 50% or more of the voting securities) are not “investment securities” for purposes of this definition. As we still maintain a majority of our assets in cash and cash equivalents and not all of our investments are in majority owned securities, unless we limit the nature of our investments of our cash assets to cash and cash equivalents (which are generally not “investment securities”), succeed in making strategic “controlling” investments and continue to monitor our investments that may be deemed to be “investment securities,” we may be deemed to be an “investment company.” We do not believe that our holdings in the PV Projects would be considered “investment securities,” as we control the PV Projects via wholly-owned subsidiaries and we do not believe that the current fair value of our investments in the MVNO project, Dori Energy or the Exploration Licenses (all as defined and more fully set forth under “Item 4.A: History and Development of Ellomay”), all of which may be deemed to be “investment securities,” would result in our being deemed to be an “investment company.” If we were deemed to be an “investment company,” we would not be permitted to register under the Investment Company Act without an order from the SEC permitting us to register because we are incorporated outside of the United States and, prior to being permitted to register, we would not be permitted to publicly offer or promote our securities in the United States. Even if we were permitted to register, it would subject us to additional commitments and regulatory compliance. Investments in cash and cash equivalents might not be as favorable to us as other investments we might make if we were not potentially subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. We seek to conduct our operations, including by way of investing our cash and cash equivalents, to the extent possible, so as not to become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. In addition, because we are actively engaged in exploring and considering strategic investments and business opportunities, and in fact the majority of our investments to date (mainly in the Italian photovoltaic power plants market) were made through a controlling investment, we do not believe that we are currently engaged in “investment company” activities or business. 20 We are exposed to certain potential liabilities in connection with the sale of our business to HP and are dependent on HP in connection with future third-party claims. In connection with the HP Transaction, we have agreed to indemnify HP and its subsidiaries that purchased our assets, and their respective officers, directors, employees and affiliates, for certain breaches of the Asset Purchase Agreement, including, among others, any breach or inaccuracy of the representations and warranties, any liabilities that were not assumed by HP and certain environmental matters. Our indemnification liability pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement was generally limited to amounts deposited in an escrow account pursuant to such Agreement. As further detailed in “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Overview” and “Item 10.C: Material Contracts,” during 2010 we entered into a settlement agreement and release with HP, which includes a mutual release of the parties to the HP Transaction, other than in the case of fraud and an undertaking by HP to bear sole responsibility for any demand or claim made by a third party against us with respect to the released matters. We are therefore still exposed to claims by HP on the basis of fraud and, furthermore, are dependent on HP to fulfill its obligations to us in the event of third party claims against us in connection with our business that was sold to HP. Any future claim by HP against us, failure of HP to fulfill its obligations to us under the HP Settlement Agreement in connection with third party claims and our expenses in connection with any resulting disagreement or dispute, would have a negative impact on our financial condition. Risks Relating to our Ordinary Shares You may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel and our headquarters are in Israel. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to effect service of process upon us or any of these persons within the United States. In addition, you may not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of such persons in Israel and in any event will be required to file a request with an Israeli court for recognition or enforcement of any non-Israeli judgment. Subject to certain time limitations, executory judgments of a United States court for liquidated damages in civil matters may be enforced by an Israeli court, provided that: (i) the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction, that recognizes and enforces similar judgments of Israeli courts and according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, (ii) adequate service of process was effected and the defendant had a reasonable opportunity to be heard, (iii) the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel, (iv) the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties, (v) the judgment is no longer appealable, and (vi) an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. You may not be able to enforce civil actions under U.S. securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay or a controlling position in Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. 21 We have undergone, and may in the future undergo, tax audits and may have to make material payments to tax authorities at the conclusion of these audits, including in connection with the sale of our business to HP. Previously to the sale of our business to HP, we conducted business globally and a substantial part of our operations was conducted in various countries and our past tax obligations were not assumed or purchased by HP as part of the business sold. Since the execution of the EPC Contracts and our other investments, we now also conduct our business globally (currently mainly in Israel and Italy). Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses. Additionally, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Not all of the tax returns of our operations in other countries and in Israel are final and may be subject to further audit and assessment by the applicable tax authorities. The consummation of the transaction with HP may increase the likelihood of additional audits of our tax returns in the future. While we believe we comply with applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes, as a result of which our future results may be adversely affected. We are controlled by a small number of shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree. In February and March 2008, a group of investors comprised of Kanir Joint Investments (2005) Limited Partnership (“Kanir”) and S. Nechama Investments (2008) Ltd. (“Nechama Investments”), acquired a substantial amount of our securities in a series of private transactions and have also entered into a shareholders agreement. Consequently, and following the exercise of various outstanding warrants, these shareholders currently hold 66.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares (and Shlomo Nehama, our Chairman of the Board who controls Nechama Investments holds directly an additional 4.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares). Therefore, acting together, they could exercise significant influence over our business, including with respect to the election of our directors and the approval of change in control and other material transactions. This concentration of control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Moreover, at our general meeting of shareholders held on December 30, 2008, our shareholders adopted our Second Amended and Restated Articles, which were presented to our shareholders at the request of Kanir and Nechama Investments. Several of the amendments, including the casting vote provided to our Chairman of the Board under certain circumstances and the ability of members of our Board to demand that certain issues be approved by our shareholders, requiring a special majority, all as more fully described in “Item 10.B: Memorandum of Association and Second Amended and Restated Articles,” may have the effect of delaying or preventing certain changes and corporate actions that would otherwise benefit our shareholders. Because our ordinary shares are quoted on the OTCQB market and their trading may become subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s “penny stock” regulations, the market liquidity of our ordinary shares is very limited. On May 19, 2005, our ordinary shares were delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. The basis of the delisting was our failure to comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted on the over-the-counter market in the OTCQB market, which is operated by OTC Markets, Inc. OTCQB is a market tier of OTC Markets for companies registered with and reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our trading symbol is “EMYCF.PK.” As a result of the removal of our ordinary shares from quotation on The NASDAQ Capital Market, our ordinary shares are not regularly covered by securities analysts and the media and the liquidity of our ordinary shares is very limited. Such limited liquidity could result in lower prices for our ordinary shares than might otherwise prevail and in larger spreads between the bid and asked prices for our ordinary shares. Additionally, certain investors will not purchase securities that are quoted on the OTCQB, which could materially impair our ability to raise funds through the issuance of our ordinary shares in the securities markets. 22 Because our ordinary shares have been removed from quotation on NASDAQ and the trading price of our ordinary shares is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our ordinary shares may become subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Although we currently meet the criteria of net tangible assets in excess of $2 million set forth in Rule 3a51-1(g)(1) which exempts our ordinary shares from being deemed “penny stock,” brokers are still subject to special record keeping requirements with respect to our ordinary shares and must demonstrate that we have met these criteria. Pursuant to Rule 15g-9, brokers and dealers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including a requirement that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, according to regulations adopted by the SEC, any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions), including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. Such requirements could further limit the market liquidity of our ordinary shares. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the near future. We have not paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares to date and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the near future. The payment of dividends will depend on our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition and will be within the discretion of our then-board of directors. As a result, any gains on an investment in our securities will need to come through appreciation of the value of such securities. Our stock price has decreased significantly in the past and may continue to be volatile, which could adversely affect the market liquidity of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional funds. Our ordinary shares have experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as there is very limited volume of trading in our ordinary shares and every transaction performed significantly influences the market price. The market price for our ordinary shares has generally followed a historical downward trend from 2000 through 2008 and has been volatile since. On May 19, 2005, our ordinary shares were delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market due to our failure to comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted on the over-the-counter market in OTCQB market, which is operated by OTC Markets, Inc. OTCQB is a market tier of OTC Markets for companies registered with and reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our trading symbol is “EMYCF.PK.” Subsequent to the consummation of the HP Transaction and prior to the execution of the initial PV Projects, we were subject to price and volume fluctuations that affect trading in the securities of shell companies, special purpose acquisition companies and other publicly traded investment vehicles. Subsequent to the execution of the initial PV Projects, due to the limited liquidity and limited analyst coverage of our business and prospects, as well as general economic and political conditions, the market price for our ordinary shares continues to be volatile. The continuance of such factors and other factors relating to our business may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares in the future. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees, many of whom are generally granted stock options as part of their compensation package, and negatively affect our ability to raise funds through both debt and equity, discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 23 If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business, operating results and share price could be materially adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to design and evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year that is the subject of this report. Our management has in the past concluded that due to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective (as of the end of fiscal 2006 and 2007) and our internal control over financial reporting was not effective (as of the end of fiscal 2007). Although we have implemented corrective measures, documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures and have made improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404 and while our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we may still be exposed to claims from regulatory authorities and our shareholders in connection with our ineffective controls in prior years. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. We may need to implement new internal control procedures over financial reporting with respect to the PV Projects, our other investments and any other operating business we may acquire. We may also experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and fees in this context. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, or if our internal controls are found to be ineffective in future periods, it could harm our financial reporting or financial results and impact the market price of our ordinary shares. 