D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves significant risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below as well as the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed and could therefore have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. The risks described below are the material risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. Risks Related to our Business Risks Related to the PV Plants The majority of our PV Plants are located in Italy and our other 85% owned PV Plant is located in Spain and therefore the revenues derived from them mainly depend on payments received from Italian and Spanish governmental entities. The economic crisis in the European Union, specifically in Italy and in Spain, and measures taken in order to improve Italy’s and Spain’s financial position, may adversely affect the results of our operations. The global financial crisis that began in 2007 directly affected Italy’s and Spain’s growth and economy. The situation worsened during 2011 due to the debt crisis in various European Union countries in general and specifically in Italy, whose current debt is one of the highest in the euro zone and in Spain, who has one of the highest budget deficit in the world. In addition, during 2012 and 2013, all three major credit rating agencies downgraded Italy’s and Spain’s debt. The debt crisis also caused the Italian and Spanish governments to adopt various spending cuts and tax increases aimed at bolstering growth and increasing revenues for the repayment of debt. For example, during 2011 Spain implemented changes to its incentive scheme, including the reduction of subsidies through 2013 and the Spanish government adopted a new law in late 2012 that imposes a new revenue tax on electricity generating power plants. Both countries remain in a state of financial crisis. Both countries have recently commenced several legislation processes that may have a direct negative effect on our results of operations. For more information see “Item 4.B: Business Overview.” Although the incentive scheme in Italy is based on end-users' payments and not directly on the Italian government’s budget, we cannot assure you that the economic crisis will not cause additional changes to the Italian government’s photovoltaic energy incentive schemes or that no additional changes will be made in Spain’s photovoltaic energy incentive scheme that may directly or indirectly affect the payments we receive and, therefore, our operations and revenues. 11 Our business depends to a large extent on the availability of financial incentives. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives could reduce our profitability and adversely impact our revenues and growth prospects. Many countries, such as Germany, Spain, Italy, France, Portugal and Japan, offer substantial incentives to offset the cost of photovoltaic power systems in the form of feed-in tariffs, or FiT or other incentives to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependence on other forms of energy. These government incentives could potentially be reduced or eliminated altogether. On June 6, 2013, the Italian Authority for Electricity and Gas (AEEG) announced that the overall annual expense cap of ˆ6.7 billion for incentive payments payable to PV has been reached. As a consequence, the latest feed-in tariff (FiT) regulation—the Conto Energia V—ceased to apply on July 6, 2013, and until new incentive plans will be formulated, Italy will not subsidize any new installations, excluding minor exempted projects. In addition, on December 19, 2013 AEEG announced the replacement, starting January 1, 2014, of the minimum guaranteed prices currently foreseen under the Italian mandatory purchase regime with the zonal hourly prices set out for each specific area for PV plants exceeding 100KWp. In Spain, which also has a subsidy system for the photovoltaic industry, retroactive cuts were adopted from early 2011 to this date by limiting the number of production hours that are eligible to receive the government’s feed-in tariff and imposing taxes on sale of electricity. On July 2013, a new remunerative regime on the investment (RD 9/2013) was announced in Spain that states that owners of PV plants will be provided with a profitability measure based on a calculation that will provide the owners of photovoltaic plants a defined yield, currently estimated to be calculated as 10-year government bonds plus 300 basis points. For more information see “Item 4.B: Business Overview.” If the Italian government does not formulate new incentive plans and if the Spanish government elects to revise the incentive scheme retroactively, as it has done in the past and is currently in the process of implementing again, this may adversely affect the profitability from our PV Plants and from any new photovoltaic plants developed by us or existing photovoltaic plant acquired by us, and may prevent us from continuing to acquire photovoltaic plants in Italy or in Spain. In general, uncertainty about the introduction of, reduction in or elimination of incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable laws could substantially affect our profitability and adversely affect our ability to continue and develop new photovoltaic plants. Due to the uncertainty in the photovoltaic field in Italy and in Spain, we may seek to primarily invest in photovoltaic plants that have already been connected to the Italian or Spanish national grid and are eligible to receive the applicable FiT, which may not be available on terms beneficial to us or at all. As many of the issues with respect to the future legislation in Italy and in Spain are currently unclear, acquisitions of photovoltaic plants that have already been constructed and are connected to the Italian or Spanish national grid currently provide relatively more certainty as to their economic potential than plants that are still in the planning or construction stage. It may be difficult for us to locate suitable opportunities with attractive returns, and, even if located, the acquisition of an operating photovoltaic plant may be less attractive as the PV market matures and as operating plants are generally more expensive. Our inability to locate and acquire additional photovoltaic plants and the higher cost of such photovoltaic plants may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 12 Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the construction and operation of our photovoltaic power plants, which may significantly reduce our profitability. Installation of photovoltaic power systems is subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with international, European, national and local ordinances, building codes, zoning, environmental protection regulation, utility interconnection requirements and other rules and regulations. For example, various governmental, municipal and other regulatory entities subject the installation and operation of the plants, and any other component of the PV Plants, to the issuance of relevant permits, licenses and authorizations. If such permits, licenses and authorizations are not issued, or are issued but not on a timely basis, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of one or more of our PV Plants, or may require making significant changes to one or more of our PV Plants, any of which may cause severe losses. These licenses and permits may be revoked by the authorities following their issuance in the event the authorities discover irregularities or deviations from the scope of the license or permit. Any delay in receiving licenses or revocation of existing licenses may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Success of the PV Plants, from their construction through their commissioning and ongoing commercial operation, depends to a large extent on the cooperation, reliability, solvency, and proper performance of the contractors we engage for the construction, operation and maintenance of our PV Plants, or the Contractors, and of the other third parties involved, including subcontractors, financing entities, land developers and land owners, suppliers of parts and equipment, the energy grid regulator, governmental agencies and other potential purchasers of electricity. The PV Plants are a complex endeavor requiring timely input, often of a highly specialized technical nature, from several parties, including without limitation, the main supplier and contemplated plant operator, other suppliers of relevant parts and materials, the land developers and land owners, subcontractors, financing entities, the Italian or Spanish government and related agencies both as subsidizers and as the purchasers of the electricity to be generated by the power plants and as regulators. In addition, as we use Contractors in order to operate and maintain our PV Plants, we depend on the representations, warranties and undertakings of such Contractors regarding, inter alia: the operation and maintenance of each of the PV Plants, the Contractors’ expertise and experience, the use of high-quality materials, securing land use rights and obtaining applicable permits, obtaining the incentive agreement in order to secure the FiT for the production and delivery of power to the national electricity grid through our PV Plants, obtaining the power purchase agreement for the sale of the produced electricity to the energy company, obtaining the interconnection agreement with the national electricity grid operator, the commissioning of power plants that are fit for long-term use, strict compliance with applicable legal requirements, our Contractors’ financial stability and the profitability of the venture. If the Contractors’ representations or warranties are inaccurate or untrue, or if any of the Contractors defaults on its obligations, or provides us with a system that is not free from defect (which causes a delay in the operation of one or more of the PV Plants), or if any of the other entities referred to herein fails to perform its obligations properly and on a timely basis or fails to grant us the required permits and certifications on a timely basis, at any point in connection with any of the PV Plants, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of the relevant PV Plant, or may require making significant changes to the project in connection with the relevant PV Plant, any of which may cause us severe losses. For example, the contractor of several of our Italian PV Plants entered into insolvency proceedings during 2012 and we were forced to replace the contractor for such PV Plants. Although we located a replacement for such contractor and there are currently many operation and maintenance contractors available in the Italian and Spanish markets, there is no assurance that we could locate an alternative contractor in the place of a deficient contractor under similar commercial terms in the future. 13 We are exposed to the possibility of damages to, or theft of, the various components of our photovoltaic plants. Such occurrences may cause disruptions in the production of electricity and additional costs. During 2012 and 2013, some of our Italian PV Plants suffered damages as a result of theft of panels and other components, of damages to invertors caused due to bad weather and damages due to land conditions. Although such damages and theft are generally covered by the PV Plants' insurance policies, any such occurrences in the future may cause disruption in the production and measurement of electricity in connection with the relevant photovoltaic plant, may not be covered in its entirety by the insurance and may cause an increase in the premiums paid to our insurance companies, which may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. Our involvement and investment in future projects to purchase or build and operate photovoltaic plants similar to our PV Plants, in Italy, Spain or elsewhere, is substantially dependent on the applicable regulation and changes in regulation applicable to such projects in the locations we choose. Prior to entering into additional projects similar to the PV Plants, we will have to ensure that the regulatory framework that will apply to the prospective projects and the thresholds set forth in such regulations are such that the prospective projects are expected to yield the returns we are interested in. As these regulations are subject to changes, we cannot ensure that the current regulation will be applicable to any future projects or that it will not be revised prospectively or retroactively in the future and that we will meet the schedule and other requirements set forth in current and future regulations. Any changes in the incentive regime could significantly decrease the expected return on the investment in new projects and therefore our results of operations with respect to existing projects and our interest in new projects. For more information concerning recent and imminent changes in the Italian and Spanish regulatory regime, see “Item 4.B: Business Overview.” As a substantial part of our business is currently located in Europe, we are subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We currently have substantial operations in Italy and one PV Plant in Spain and may make additional investments in projects located outside of Israel or the United States. Due to these operations and any additional future investments, we are subject to special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in other jurisdictions, including rules and regulations, cross currency movements, different payment cycles, tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to Israel and the United States, cultural and language differences, crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars and deterioration of political relations with Israel. The PV Plants subject us to a number of these risks, as well as the requirement to comply with Italian, Spanish and European Union law. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. We only have a few years of experience and limited independent expertise in the field of photovoltaic power plants, and are therefore reliant on our professional advisors. We have limited experience and have limited independent expertise in the field of operations relating to the PV Plants, that is, the construction, installation, testing, commissioning, operation and maintenance of photovoltaic power plants and the supply of electricity to customers, whether in Italy, Spain or elsewhere. Although we have a representative in Italy who oversees the operation of our Italian PV Plants, we are still dependent upon our professional advisors (such as technical, legal and insurance experts). If the advice received from our professional advisors is inaccurate, incomplete or otherwise flawed, this could result in the inaccurate evaluation of the value and future prospects of a PV plant, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 14 We are dependent on the suppliers that supply the panels that are installed in our photovoltaic plants. The lack of reliability of such suppliers or of their products, as well as such suppliers’ insolvency, may have an adverse effect on our business. Our PV Plants’ performance depends on the quality of the panels installed. Therefore, one of the critical factors in the success of our PV Plants is the existence of reliable panel suppliers, who guarantee the performance and quality of the panels supplied. During recent years, several of the manufacturers of photovoltaic panels became insolvent and certain others suffered severe losses and have gone through a consolidation process. Degradation in the performance of the solar panels above a certain level is guaranteed by the panel suppliers and we receive undertakings from the Contractor with respect to minimum performances, however, if any of the suppliers is unreliable or becomes insolvent, it may default on warranty obligations, and such default may cause an interruption in our business or reduction in the generation of energy power, and thus may have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Our ability to leverage our investment and to increase the return on our equity investments depends, inter alia, on our ability to obtain attractive financing from financial entities. Due to the crisis in the European financial markets in general, and in the Italian and Spanish financial markets specifically, obtaining financing from local banks is more difficult, and the terms on which such financing can be obtained are less favorable to the borrowers. Our ability to obtain attractive financing and the terms of such financing, including interest rates, equity to debt ratio requirement and timing of debt availability will significantly impact the return on our equity investments in the PV Plants. Due to the financial crisis in the European Union in general, and in countries like Greece, Spain and Italy specifically, the local Italian and Spanish banks have substantially limited the scope of financing available to commercial firms and the financing that is provided involves terms less favorable than terms provided prior to the financial crisis. In addition, obtaining financing for our PV Plants from financial institutions that are not located in Spain or in Italy is difficult due to such institutions' lack of familiarity with these markets and the underlying assets. Although we have entered into financing agreements with respect to six of the twelve Italian PV Plants, there is no assurance that we will be able to procure financing for the remaining PV Plants in Italy, our PV Plant in Spain or any PV plants we will acquire in the future, on terms favorable to us or at all. Our inability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, may adversely affect the return on our investment in one or more of the PV Plants and our ability to leverage our investment. In the event we will be unable to continuously comply with the obligations and undertakings, including with respect to financial covenants, which we undertook in connection with the financing of the PV Plants, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In connection with the financing of several of our PV Plants, we have entered into long-term agreements with outside sources of financing, including banks and a leasing company. The agreements that govern the provision of financing include, inter alia, undertakings and financial covenants that we are required to maintain for the duration of such financing agreements. In the event we fail to comply with any of these undertakings and covenants, we may be subject to penalties, future financing requirements, and, finally, to the acceleration of the repayment of debt. These occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and on our ability to obtain outside financing for other projects. 15 A drop in the prices of electricity may negatively impact our results of operations. The revenue from the sale of electricity produced by the PV Plants includes the incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs and proceeds from the sale of electricity produced in the electricity market at market price. A decrease in the price of electricity in Italy or in Spain may have a negative impact on our profitability and on our ability to expand our photovoltaic business. Photovoltaic power plant installations have substantially increased over the past few years. The increased demand for solar panels resulted in substantial investments in photovoltaic panels production facilities, creating oversupply and a sharp decrease in the prices of solar panels. These events resulted in financial difficulties and consolidation of panel suppliers, which may lead to a reversal in the trend and an increase in the prices of solar panels and other components of the system (such as invertors and related electric components), increasing the costs of replacing components in our existing PV Plants and impacting the profitability of constructing new photovoltaic plants and our ability to expand our business. Additionally, if there is a shortage of key components necessary for the production of the solar panels, that may constrain our revenue growth. Higher demand for solar panels and other components of the photovoltaic system resulted in the past in oversupply and a sharp decrease in prices that led many panel suppliers to financial difficulties and liquidation or consolidation with other suppliers. This trend may lead to a decrease in supply and, therefore, an increase in the price of the photovoltaic system components. Should we decide to expand the business and construct additional plants over time, such increases may significantly decrease the expected return on the investment in new projects. Silicon is a dominant component of the solar panels, and although manufacturing abilities have increased over-time, any shortage of silicon, or any other material component necessary for the manufacture of the solar panels, may adversely affect our business. Our ability to produce solar power is dependent upon the magnitude and duration of sunlight as well as other meteorological and geographic factors. The power production has a seasonal cycle, and adverse meteorological conditions can have a material impact on the plant’s output and could result in production of electricity below expected output, which in turn could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, floods, storms, seismic turbulence and earth movements may damage our PV Plants and the insurance coverage we have for such risks may not cover in full the damage because of these circumstances are sometimes deemed “acts of god.” The resulting expense due to the need to replace damaged components or the lower electricity output may adversely affect our profitability. As electric power accounts for a growing share of overall energy use, the market for solar energy is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. The market for solar energy attracts many initiatives and therefore is intensely competitive. Our competitors who strive to construct new photovoltaic power plants and acquire existing plants may have established more prominent market positions and may have more experience in this field. Extensive competition may adversely affect our ability to continue to acquire and develop new photovoltaic plants. A decrease in prices of other technologies for power production in the field of renewable energy, such as wind power and pumped storage, may result in governmental encouragement of such other technologies on account of encouragement of the photovoltaic technology. This could adversely impact our revenues and growth prospects. 16 Delays in the construction of the PV Plants or in the filing of the required documentation with the authorities whether in Italy, Spain or elsewhere may result in loss of our eligibility to receive feed-in-tariffs or impede our ability to obtain financing at terms beneficial to us, or at all, and therefore may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Although all of our PV Plants are currently fully constructed and connected to the applicable national grid, we have experienced delays in the completion of the construction or connection to the Italian national grid in the past, which did not result in changes of the applicable FiT. In the event we acquire additional PV Plants that are not fully constructed, delays in construction and filing of documentation could cause a delay in connection to the grid and the application of a different, lower, FiT. Although the contracts that govern the construction of photovoltaic plants often include a system of liquidated damages and price reductions that apply in the event of delays or loss of certain FiT, these remedies are limited and may not completely offset the damages caused to us. Our limited ability to protect ourselves against damages caused due to delays with respect to PV plants we may acquire in the future, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Risks Relating to Our Investment in Dori Energy We have joint control in Dori Energy, who, in turn, holds a minority stake in Dorad Energy Ltd., or Dorad. Therefore, we do not control the operations and actions of Dorad. We currently hold 40% (and an option to increase our holdings under certain conditions to 50%) of the equity of Dori Energy who, in turn, holds 18.75% of Dorad. Although we entered into a shareholders’ agreement with Dori Energy and the other shareholder of Dori Energy, U. Dori Group Ltd., or the Dori SHA, providing us with joint control of Dori Energy, should differences of opinion as to the management, prospects and operations of Dori Energy arise, such differences may limit our ability to direct the operations of Dori Energy. In addition, Dori Energy holds a minority stake in Dorad and as of the date hereof is entitled to nominate only one director in Dorad, which, according to the Dori SHA, we are entitled to nominate. Although we have one representative on the Dorad board of directors, we do not control Dorad’s operations. These factors may potentially adversely impact the business and operations of Dorad and Dori Energy. In addition, to the extent our interest in Dori Energy is deemed an investment security, as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, we could be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, depending on the value of our other assets. Please see "We may be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences" below. The Dori Energy Shareholders Agreement contains restrictions on our right to transfer our holdings in Dori Energy, which may make it difficult for us to terminate our involvement with Dori Energy. The Dori SHA contains several restrictions on our ability to transfer our holdings in Dori Energy, including a “restriction period” during which we are not allowed to transfer our holdings in Dori Energy (other than to permitted transferees) and, thereafter, certain mechanisms such as a right of first refusal. The aforesaid restrictions may make it difficult for us to terminate our involvement with Dori Energy should we elect to do so and may adversely affect the return on our investment in Dori Energy. 17 Dorad, which is currently the only substantial asset held by Dori Energy, is involved in a complex project that includes the construction and thereafter the operations and management of the Dorad Power Plant, and its successful operations and profitability is dependent on a variety of factors, many of which are not within Dorad’s control. Dorad is involved in the construction of a combined cycle power plant based on natural gas, with a production capacity of approximately 800 MW, or the Dorad Power Plant, on the premises of the Eilat-Ashkelon Pipeline Company, or EAPC, located south of Ashkelon, Israel. The Dorad Power Plant is subject to various complex agreements with third parties (the Israeli Electric Company, or IEC, the contractor, suppliers, private customers, etc.) and to regulatory restrictions and guidelines in connection with, among other issues, the tariffs to be paid by the IEC to Dorad for the energy produced. Various factors and events, both during the construction period of the Dorad Power Plant and during the operations of the power plant, may materially adversely affect Dorad’s results of operations and profitability and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on Dori Energy’s and our results of operations and profitability. These factors and events include: · The Dorad Power Plant is in the final stages of the construction phase and during such period Dorad is exposed to various risks, including, without limitation, in connection with noncompliance or breach by the contractor involved in the construction, noncompliance by Dorad or any of its shareholders with their undertaking to finance the Dorad Power Plant, which may result, inter alia, in fines and penalties being imposed on Dorad, defects or delays in the construction due to the contractor or outside events and delays in supply of equipment required for the construction of the Dorad Power Plant; · The operations of the Dorad Power Plant have been delayed due to various factors, including a delay in construction during 2012 due to missile attacks. Such delays may result in penalties and expenses to Dorad due to a breach of its undertakings towards certain of its customers as to the commencement of operations of the Dorad Power Plant. Dorad has already entered into settlement agreements with two of its customers, compensating them for the delays. Any further delays may cause Dorad to incur additional expenses, to grant further discounts to its customers or result in the enforcement of guarantees provided to certain customers, all of which may have a material adverse effect on Dorad's results of operations and profitability. · The electricity sector in Israel is highly centralized and is dominated by the IEC, which controls and operates the electricity system in Israel, including the delivery and transmission of electricity and also manufactures the substantial majority of electricity in Israel. In addition, the electricity sector is subject to various laws and regulations, including in connection with the tariffs charged by the IEC, including the resolution from May 2013 to charge private manufacturers for the IEC's system operation services, and the licensing requirement, such as the requirement that Dorad obtain a permanent license prior to commencement of its operations. Among other things, the prices paid by Dorad to the IEC for system operation services it will provide to Dorad and the fees received by Dorad from the IEC for electricity sold to the IEC and for providing the IEC with energy availability are all based on tariffs determined by the Israeli regulator and are subject to change due to an impending reform in the electricity market in Israel in light of the IEC's financial situation and the entrance of private energy manufacturers, including Dorad, into the Israeli electricity market. The updates and changes to the regulation may not necessarily involve negotiations or consultations with Dorad and may be unilaterally imposed on it. In addition, the employees of the IEC, who object to certain reforms in the Israeli electricity sector, have in the past applied sanctions to prevent the connection, and at a later stage threatened to disconnect, the Dorad Power Plant from the Israeli national grid as part of their efforts to prevent implementation of these reforms and may in the future do so again. Any changes in the tariffs, system charges or applicable regulations, failure by Dorad to obtain or to maintain the required permanents license, the inability of the IEC to pay Dorad or unilateral actions on the part of IEC's employees may adversely affect Dorad's plan of operations and could have a material adverse effect on Dorad's profitability. 18 · Dorad's operations are dependent upon the expertise and success of its operations and maintenance contractor, who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Dorad Power Plant. In the event the services provided by such contractor will cause delays in the production of energy or any other damage to the Dorad Power Plant or to Dorad's customers, Dorad may be subject to claims for damages and to additional expenses and losses and therefore Dorad's profitability could be adversely affected. · Significant equipment failures may limit Dorad's production of energy. Although such damages are generally covered by insurance policies, any such failures may cause disruption in the production, may not all be covered by the insurance and the correction of such failures may involve a considerable amount of resources and investment and could therefore adversely affect Dorad's profitability. · The operation of the Dorad Power Plant is highly complex and dependent upon the continued ability: (i) to operate the various turbines, and (ii) to turn the turbines on and shut them down quickly based on demand and also on the accuracy of the proprietary forecasting system that will be used by Dorad. Any defects or disruptions, or inaccuracies in forecasts, may result in inability to provide the amount of electricity required by Dorad's customers or in over-production, both of which could have a material adverse effect on Dorad's operations and profitability. · Dorad’s operations are mainly financed by a consortium of financing entities pursuant to a long-term credit facility and such credit facility provides for pre-approval by the consortium of certain of Dorad’s actions and contracts with third parties. Changes in the credit ratings of Dorad and its shareholders, non-compliance with financing and other covenants, delays in provision of required pre-approvals or disagreements with the financial entities and additional factors may adversely affect Dorad’s operations and profitability. · The Dorad Power Plant is located in Ashkelon, a town in the southern part of Israel, in proximity to the Gaza Strip. The location of the Dorad Power Plant is within range of missile strikes from the Gaza Strip. In recent years, there has been an escalation in violence and missile attacks from the Gaza Strip, including an eight day period in November 2012 in which more than 1,500 missiles were fired from Gaza Strip to Southern and Central Israel. This attack disrupted the work on the Dorad Power Plant, which resumed after the missile strikes ceased. Any such further attacks to the area or any direct damage to the location of the Dorad Power Plant may damage Dorad's facilities and disrupt the commencement of operations of the Dorad Power Plant and thereafter its operations, and may cause losses and delays; and · Dorad entered into a long-term gas supply agreement with the partners in the “Tamar” license, or Tamar, located in the Mediterranean Sea off the coast of Israel. This agreement includes a “take or pay” mechanism that may result in Dorad paying for gas that is not actually required for its operations. In the event Dorad will be required to pay for gas that it does not need, Dorad’s results of operations and profitability could be adversely affected. The price of the natural gas under the agreement with Tamar is indexed to the electricity production tariff and is therefore subject to change. Such possible revision is now the basis for a dispute between Dorad and Tamar, which may be required to be settled in an arbitration process. In addition, as Tamar is currently Dorad’s sole supplier of gas and has undertaken to supply natural gas to various customers and is permitted to export a certain amount of the natural gas to customers outside of Israel. Dorad's operations will depend on the timely, continuous and uninterrupted supply of gas from Tamar and on the existence of sufficient reserves throughout the term of the agreement with Tamar. Any delays, disruptions, increase in the price of natural gas under the agreement, or shortages in the gas supply from Tamar will adversely affect Dorad's results of operations. 19 · The Dorad power plant is subject to environmental regulations, aimed at increasing the protection of the environment and reducing environmental hazards, including by way of imposing restrictions regarding noise, harmful emissions to the environment and handling of hazardous materials. Currently the costs of compliance with the foregoing requirements are not material. Any breach or other noncompliance with the applicable laws may cause Dorad to incur additional costs due to penalties and fines and expenses incurred in order to regain compliance with the applicable laws, all of which may have an adverse effect on Dorad's profitability and results of operations. · As a result of the agreements with the construction contractors of the Dorad power plant and the indexation included in the gas supply agreement, Dorad is exposed to changes in exchange rates of the U.S. dollar against the NIS. To minimize this exposure Dorad executed forward transactions to purchase U.S. dollars against the NIS. As the hedging performed by Dorad does not completely eliminate such exposure, Dorad's profitability might be adversely affected due to future changes in exchange rates. In addition, due to the indexing to the Israeli consumer price index under Dorad's credit facility, it is exposed to fluctuations in the Israeli CPI, which may adversely affect its results of operations and profitability. Risks Related to our Other Activities We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments under our Series A Debentures and other financing agreements. In January 2014, we raised approximately $33.5 million (approximately NIS 116.8 million), gross proceeds, through the issuance to the public in Israel of our Series A Nonconvertible Debentures, or the Series A Debentures. Net of offering related expenses, the proceeds were approximately $32.9 million (approximately NIS 114.7 million) as of the issuance date. In addition, several of our wholly-owned Italian subsidiaries have entered into financing agreements with various financial institutions, in the aggregate amount of approximately Euro 15.4 million (approximately $20.1 million). If we are unable to make payments when required by the Series A Debentures or these financing agreements or if we do not comply with the financial covenants contained in the deed of trust for the Series A Debentures or our loan agreements and upon the occurrence of several other events of default included in such documents, including certain cross default provisions, we could be required to repay all or portion of these loans prior to their maturity. Depending on our financial position at the time such repayment is required, we may or may not be able to comply with the requirement, subjecting certain assets that were pledged in connection with the various financing agreements to foreclosure by the financing institutions. This may have a material adverse effect on our operations and liquidity. Our ability to freely operate our business is limited as a result of certain restrictive covenants contained in the deed of trust of our Series A Debentures. The deed of trust governing the Series A Debentures, or the Series A Deed of Trust, contains a number of restrictive covenants that limit our operating and financial flexibility. These covenants include, among other things, a "negative pledge" with respect to a floating pledge on all of our assets and an obligation to pay additional interest in case of certain rating downgrades. The Series A Deed of Trust also contains covenants regarding maintaining certain levels of financial ratios and criteria, including as a condition to the distribution of dividends and other customary immediate repayment conditions, including, under certain circumstances, in the event of a change of control, a change in our operations or a disposition of a substantial amount of assets. Our ability to continue to comply with these and other obligations depends in part on the future performance of our business. Such obligations may hinder our ability to finance our future operations or the manner in which we operate our business. In particular, any non-compliance with performance-related covenants and other undertakings of the Series A Debentures could result in demand for immediate repayment of the outstanding amount under the Series A Debentures and restrict our ability to obtain additional funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 20 Our debt increases our exposure to market risks, may limit our ability to incur additional debt that may be necessary to fund our operations and could adversely affect our financial stability. As of December 31, 2013, our total indebtedness was approximately EUR 27.1 million (approximately $37.3 million), excluding any related capitalized costs. We have since repaid approximately EUR 12.9 million (approximately $17.7 million) of such indebtedness and incurred additional indebtedness of approximately $33.5 million as of the issuance date (approximately NIS 116.8 million) in connection with the issuance of the Series A Debentures. The trust deed governing the Series A Debentures permits us to incur additional indebtedness, subject to maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. Our debt and any additional debt we may incur, could adversely affect our financial condition by, among other things: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or business conditions and cross currency movements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry and the economy in general; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the funds available for operations and future business development; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to operate, develop and expand our business. Our business results may be affected by currency and interest rate fluctuations and the hedging transactions we enter into in order to manage currency and interest rate related risks. We hold cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term deposits in various currencies, including US$, Euro and NIS. Our investments in the Italian and Spanish PV Plants and in Dori Energy are denominated in Euro and NIS. Our Series A Debentures are denominated in NIS and the interest and principal payments are to be made in NIS and the financing we have obtained in connection with six of our PV Plants bears interest that is based on EURIBOR rate. Therefore our repayment obligations and undertakings may be affected by adverse movements in the exchange and interest rates. Although we attempt to manage these risks by entering into hedging transactions as more fully explained in “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and via hedging transactions entered into following December 31, 2013 in connection with the receipt of the NIS proceeds from the issuance of our Series A Debentures, we cannot ensure that we will manage to eliminate these risks in their entirety. These hedging transactions may also impact the results of our operations due to fluctuations in their value based on changes in the relevant exchange or interest rate. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business or a power plant, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of target businesses or power plants that we would intend to acquire or purchase an interest in. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the technical, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business, we cannot assure you that this due diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our due diligence review fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and may not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our ordinary shares. 21 The current general economic and business conditions around the world and any subsequent economic downturn may adversely affect our ability to consummate new acquisitions, to procure financing for our PV Plants, the prospects of any project we may acquire and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Since mid-2008, due to the severity of the crisis affecting financial institutions throughout the world, the rising costs of various commodities, the limited growth and economic development throughout the world, as well as the recession, the general economic and business conditions in many countries around the world worsened, affecting, among other things, credit ratings of borrowers, the perceived and actual credit risks faced by lenders and purchasers of debt securities, the solvency of trade partners, market entities’ appetite for risk, the spending habits of consumers, the ability to procure financing. This crisis disproportionately affected Europe during 2011 and 2012 and many European economies, including Italy and Spain. Despite signs of possible recovery, there is no assurance that this financial crisis will improve or be resolved over the short, medium or long term, or that the recession will be overcome in its entirety in the near or far future, or that any of the trends associated with such recession will be reversed in whole or in part. Furthermore, if any further economic downturns ensue, this may adversely affect our ability to procure financing required for the acquisition of new projects, the value of new projects we acquire and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if such further economic downturn will occur, it may also affect the trading prices of securities in various capital markets around the world and may significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. We may be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. We could be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act if we invest more than 40% of our assets in “investment securities,” as defined in the Investment Company Act. Investments in securities of majority owned subsidiaries (defined for these purposes as companies in which we control 50% or more of the voting securities) are not “investment securities” for purposes of this definition. As our interest in Dori Energy is not considered an investment in majority owned securities, unless we maintain the required portion of our assets under our control, limit the nature of our investments of our cash assets to cash and cash equivalents (which are generally not “investment securities”), succeed in making additional strategic “controlling” investments and continue to monitor our investment in Dori Energy, we may be deemed to be an “investment company.” We do not believe that our holdings in the PV Plants would be considered “investment securities,” as we control the PV Plants via wholly-owned subsidiaries and we do not believe that the current fair value of our short-term deposits and holdings in Dori Energy (all as more fully set forth under “Item 4.A: History and Development of Ellomay” and “Item 4.B: Business Overview”), all of which may be deemed to be “investment securities,” would result in our being deemed to be an “investment company.” If we were deemed to be an “investment company,” we would not be permitted to register under the Investment Company Act without an order from the SEC permitting us to register because we are incorporated outside of the United States and, prior to being permitted to register, we would not be permitted to publicly offer or promote our securities in the United States. Even if we were permitted to register, it would subject us to additional commitments and regulatory compliance. Investments in cash and cash equivalents might not be as favorable to us as other investments we might make if we were not potentially subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. We seek to conduct our operations, including by way of investing our cash and cash equivalents, to the extent possible, so as not to become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. In addition, because we are actively engaged in exploring and considering strategic investments and business opportunities, and in fact the majority of our investments to date (mainly in the Italian and Spanish photovoltaic power plants markets) were made through a controlling investment, we do not believe that we are currently engaged in “investment company” activities or business. 22 Our ability to successfully effect acquisitions and to be successful thereafter will be significantly dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Several of our key personnel allocate their time to other businesses. Our ability to successfully effect acquisitions is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including Shlomo Nehama, our chairman of the board, Ran Fridrich, a director and our Chief Executive Officer and Menahem Raphael, a member of our board. Although we have entered into a Management Services Agreement with entities affiliated with these board members, they are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. If our directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate acquisitions. We may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, for any taxable year that our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed specified levels, we will be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders, which may include having certain distributions on our ordinary shares and gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of sales of our ordinary shares and certain distributions. Certain elections may be made to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our shares, but these elections may be detrimental to the shareholder under certain circumstances. The PFIC rules are extremely complex and U.S. investors are urged to consult independent tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our classification as a PFIC. Based on our income and/or assets, we believe that we were a PFIC with respect to any U.S. shareholder that held our shares in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. We also believe, based on our income and assets, that it is likely that we were not a PFIC with respect to U.S. shareholders that held our ordinary shares in 2013. However, the Internal Revenue Service may disagree with our determinations regarding our prior or present PFIC status and, depending on future events, we could become a PFIC in future years. For a more detailed discussion of the consequences of our being classified as a PFIC, see “Item 10.E: Taxation” under the caption “U.S. Tax Considerations Regarding Ordinary Shares.” 23 Risks Relating to our Ordinary Shares You may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel and our headquarters are in Israel. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to effect service of process upon us or any of these persons within the United States. In addition, you may not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of such persons in Israel and in any event will be required to file a request with an Israeli court for recognition or enforcement of any non-Israeli judgment. Subject to certain time limitations, executory judgments of a United States court for liquidated damages in civil matters may be enforced by an Israeli court, provided that: (i) the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction, that recognizes and enforces similar judgments of Israeli courts and according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, (ii) adequate service of process was effected and the defendant had a reasonable opportunity to be heard, (iii) the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel, (iv) the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties, (v) the judgment is no longer appealable, and (vi) an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. You may not be able to enforce civil actions under U.S. securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay or a controlling position in Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. We may rely on certain Israeli “home country” corporate governance practices which may not afford shareholders the same protection afforded to stockholders of U.S. companies. As a foreign private issuer for purposes of U.S. securities laws, NYSE MKT rules allow us to follow certain Israeli “home country” corporate governance practices in lieu of the corresponding NYSE MKT corporate governance rules. Such home country practices may not afford shareholders the same level of rights or protections in certain matters as those of stockholders of U.S. domestic companies. To the extent we are entitled to elect to follow Israeli law and practice rather than corresponding U.S. law or practice, such as with regard to the requirement for shareholder approval of changes to option plans, our shareholders may not be afforded the same level of rights they would have under U.S. practice. We have undergone, and will in the future undergo, tax audits and may have to make material payments to tax authorities at the conclusion of these audits. Prior to the sale of our business to HP, we conducted business globally and a substantial part of our operations was conducted in various countries and our past tax obligations were not assumed or purchased by HP as part of the business sold. Since the execution of the contracts in connection with the PV Plants and our other investments, we now also conduct our business globally (currently in Israel, Luxemburg, Italy and Spain). Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses. Additionally, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Not all of the tax returns of our operations in other countries and in Israel are final and we will be subject to further audit and assessment by the applicable tax authorities. While we believe we comply with applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes, as a result of which our future results may be adversely affected. 24 We are controlled by a small number of shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree and which may also prevent a change of control via purchases in the market. Currently, a group of investors comprised of Kanir Joint Investments (2005) Limited Partnership, or Kanir, and S. Nechama Investments (2008) Ltd., or Nechama Investments, hold an aggregate of 59.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Shlomo Nehama, our Chairman of the Board who controls Nechama Investments holds directly an additional 4.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares, Ran Fridrich, our CEO and a member of our Board of Directors, holds directly an additional 1.1% of our outstanding ordinary shares and Hemi Raphael, a member of our Board of Directors who, together with Ran Fridrich, controls the general partner of Kanir, directly and indirectly holds an additional 4.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Therefore, acting together, these shareholders could exercise significant influence over our business, including with respect to the election of our directors and the approval of change in control and other material transactions. This concentration of control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. In addition, as a result of this concentration of control, we are deemed a "controlled company" for purposes of NYSE MKT rules and as such we are not subject to certain NYSE MKT corporate governance rules. Moreover, our Second Amended and Restated Articles includes the casting vote provided to our Chairman of the Board under certain circumstances and the ability of members of our Board to demand that certain issues be approved by our shareholders, requiring a special majority, all as more fully described in “Item 10.B: Memorandum of Association and Second Amended and Restated Articles,” may have the effect of delaying or preventing certain changes and corporate actions that would otherwise benefit our shareholders. Our ordinary shares are listed in two markets and this may result in price variations that could affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares have been listed on the NYSE MKT under the symbol “ELLO” since August 22, 2011 and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE, under the symbol “ELOM” since October 27, 2013. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NYSE MKT and New Israeli Shekels on the TASE), and at different times (due to the different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. 25 Our non-compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NYSE MKT could cause the delisting of our ordinary shares. The market liquidity and analyst coverage of our ordinary shares is very limited. The NYSE MKT requires listed companies to comply with continued listing requirements, including with respect to stockholders’ equity, distribution of shares and low selling price. There can be no assurance that we will continue to qualify for listing on the NYSE MKT. If our ordinary shares are delisted from the NYSE MKT, trading in our ordinary shares in the United States could be conducted on an electronic bulletin board such as the OTC Bulletin Board, which could affect the liquidity of our ordinary shares and the ability of the shareholders to sell their ordinary shares in the secondary market, which, in turn, may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Also, as our shares are now traded on the TASE, to the extent our share are delisted from the NYSE MKT we could decide to cease being a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which may make it more difficult for investors to find up to date information about us, in English or at all. Moreover, in the event our ordinary shares are delisted from the NYSE MKT but are still listed on the TASE, we will be required to start filing and publishing reports in Hebrew with the Israeli authorities in a similar manner to the Israeli public companies whose shares are not listed on an exchange recognized by the Israeli regulator, which will subject us to additional substantial expenses in addition to additional regulatory requirements that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our ordinary shares are not yet regularly covered by securities analysts and the media and the liquidity of our ordinary shares is still very limited. Such limited liquidity could result in lower prices for our ordinary shares than might otherwise prevail and in larger spreads between the bid and asked prices for our ordinary shares. These issues could materially impair our ability to raise funds through the issuance of our ordinary shares in the securities markets. We have not paid any cash dividends in the past and do not currently have a dividend distribution policy. The payment of dividends will depend on our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements, general financial condition and applicable legal and contractual constraints in connection with distribution of profits and will be within the discretion of our then-board of directors. In addition, the terms of the deed of trust governing our Series A Debentures restrict our ability to distribute dividends (for more information see “Item 5:B. Liquidity and Capital Resources”). As a result, any gains on an investment in our ordinary shares will need to come through appreciation of the value of such shares. Our stock price has been very volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile, which could adversely affect the market liquidity of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional funds. Our ordinary shares have experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as there is still very limited volume of trading in our ordinary shares and every transaction performed significantly influences the market price. Although our ordinary shares have been listed on the NYSE MKT since August 22, 2011 and on the TASE since October 27, 2013, there is still limited liquidity and limited analyst coverage of our business and prospects, and these circumstances, combined with the general economic and political conditions, cause the market price for our ordinary shares to continue to be volatile. The continuance of such factors and other factors relating to our business may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares in the future. 26 