D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves significant risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In February 2008, we sold our wide-format printing business, through the sale of substantially all of our assets and liabilities relating to such business, to HP. Our assets currently mainly consist of the cash consideration received from HP, in cash and cash equivalents. Since the consummation of the sale of our business, we have concentrated on activities relating to the investment of our funds and handling the winding up of the operations that were not transferred to HP and the remaining aspects relating to the transfer of the business to HP, as well as pursuing our current plan of operation, which is to identify and evaluate suitable business opportunities and strategic alternatives, including through the acquisition of all or part of an existing business, pursuing business combinations or otherwise. Further to suc h efforts, we decided to enter the market of photovoltaic power plants in Italy, by way of contracting with a company currently operating in this field for the purpose of installing and operating such plants for commercial purposes. In parallel, we are continuing to explore other investment opportunities, both within the same market and in other markets. 10 We are exposed to potential liabilities in connection with the sale of our business to HP. In connection with the HP Transaction, we have agreed to indemnify HP and its subsidiaries that purchased our assets, and their respective officers, directors, employees and affiliates, for certain breaches of the Asset Purchase Agreement, including, among others, any breach or inaccuracy of the representations and warranties, any liabilities that were not assumed by HP and certain environmental matters. Our indemnification liability pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement is generally limited to amounts deposited in an escrow account pu rsuant to such Agreement ($9.5 million deposited in an indemnity escrow account for a period of 18 months and $5 million deposited for a period of 24 months, for a total of $14.5 million). However, we agreed that claims for indemnity relating to certain liabilities, including, among others, fraud, willing and intentional breach of warranties, liabilities arising in connection with assets or liabilities that were not purchased by HP, failure to comply with certain restrictive covenants and environmental issues, will not be limited to the amounts deposited in escrow. HP has, over the course of 2009, submitted claims for the release of amounts from the escrow funds on the basis of the abovementioned indemnification obligations, as further detailed in “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Overview”. Such claims against us could result in substantial losses to us, wh ich we may be required to pay from the escrow funds and from sources other than the funds deposited in escrow, and which would have a negative impact on our financial condition. We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating other suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination. Except with respect to the agreements necessary or incidental to the EPC Project, we do not have an agreement or understanding with any third party with respect to the future operations of the Company. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination and we expect to incur expenses in connection with this identification and evaluation process, whether or not such process results in an investment of our funds. While we are actively exploring other strategic transactions and business opportunities further to our recent entry into the Italian photovoltaic power plants market, we have not targeted any particular industry or specific business within an industry in which to pursue such opportunities. We may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history or other negative characteristics such as having limited earnings or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets and negative net worth. We may also pursue a business combination, purchase of assets or other business opportunity that will not necessarily provide us with significant financial benefits in the short or long term. In the event that we complete a business combination or asset purchase, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the performance of management of the target company (or the ability to successfully outsource certain managemen t functions) and our ability to retain such management and numerous other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of target businesses that we would intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence proce ss, such that in practice our due diligence efforts may be more limited in scope and extent. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business, we cannot assure you that this due diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our due diligence review fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and may not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our ordinary shares. 11 The current general economic and business conditions around the world and any subsequent economic downturn may adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination, the prospects of any business we may acquire and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Since mid-2008, due to the severity of the crisis affecting financial institutions in the United States and throughout the world, the rising costs of various commodities, the limited growth and economic development in the United States and throughout the world, as well as the recession, the general economic and business conditions in many countries around the world worsened , affecting, among other things, credit ratings of borrowers, the perceived and actual credit risks faced by lenders and purchasers of debt securities, the solvency of trade partners, market entities’ appetite for risk, the spending habits of consumers, the ability to procure financing. Although in the second half of 2009, in certain markets, including the United States and portions of Europe the general economic and business conditions around the world have shown indications of recovery, there is no assurance that this will continue over the short, medium or long term, or that the recession will be overcome in its entirety, or that any of the trends associated with such recession will be reversed in whole or in part. Furthermore, if any further economic downturns ensue, this may adversely affect our ability to procure financing required for prospective business combinations, the value of businesses we acquire and our financial condition and results of operations. In ad dition, if such economic downturn occurs, it may also affect the trading prices of securities in various capital markets around the world and may significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. We may not be able to consummate a business combination that will be beneficial to our shareholders. We expect to encounter significant competition from entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, private equity funds, special purpose acquisition companies, operating businesses competing for acquisitions, and blank check companies. Many of these potential acquirers are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Such entities may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. In addition, our history of operations and potential exposures relating to our previous operations may limit our ability to consummate a business combination that will be beneficial to our current shareholders. When we do select a prospective target business or business in which to invest or with which to complete a business combination, we may be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’s operations. To the extent we complete a business combination or investment transaction, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of the acquired business or businesses. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors, or th at we will have adequate resources to perform a complete due diligence process. 12 The consummation of a business combination may lead to the dilution of the value of our shares, and may involve the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock or the issuance of debt securities. Issuance of our capital stock would have a dilutive effect over the interests of our shareholders. In the event we enter into a business combination or similar arrangement, it may involve the allocation of a significant amount of cash held by us as a result of the HP Transaction. Depending upon the value of the assets acquired in such business combination or investment, the per share value of our ordinary shares may increase or decrease, possibly significantly. In addition, we may need to raise additional financing by issuing our ordinary shares to investors, issuing debt securities or incurring bank or other debt in order to consummate business combinations or acquisitions, and the difficulty of raising capital in the current capital markets environment makes it possible that such ordinary shares or debt securities may be issued at discounts from prevailing market prices. Our second amended and restated articles authorize the issuance of up to 170,000,000 ordinary shares. There are currently 54,465,171 ordinary shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding stock options and warrants). The issuance of additional ordinary shares may significantly reduce your equity interest in Ellomay and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. The incurrence of bank debt or the issuance of de bt securities may place restrictions on our ability to operate our business, including leading to default and foreclosure on our assets, subjecting us to restrictive covenants and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing. Our ability to successfully effect business combinations or acquisitions and to be successful thereafter will be significantly dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Several of our key personnel allocate their time to other businesses. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination or acquisition is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including Shlomo Nehama, our chairman of the board, and other members of our board of directors. Although we have entered into a Management Services Agreement with entities affiliated with three of our board members, including Mr. Nehama, these and our other direc tors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. If our directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. If we acquire a business or effect a business combination with a company located outside of Israel or the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may acquire or effect a business combination with a company located outside of Israel or the United States. In such case, we would be subject to special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals, tariffs and trade barriers, regulations related to customs and import/export matters, different payment cycles, tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to Israel and the United States, currency fluctuations and exchange controls, challenges in collecting accounts receivable, cultural and language differences, employment regulations, crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars and deterioration of political relations with Israel. The EPC Project will subject us to a number of these risks, as well as the requirement to comply with Italian and European Union law. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. 13 If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. As a result of the HP Transaction, since February 2008, our assets mainly consist of cash and cash equivalents producing passive income. Under the PFIC rules, for any taxable year that our passive income or our assets that produce passive income, exceed specified levels, we will be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders, which may include having certain di stributions on our ordinary shares and gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of sales of our ordinary shares and certain distributions. Since our assets and income in 2009 exceeded the PFIC specified levels, we have not met the requirements set forth in Section 1298(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, providing an exception from the PFIC status for a “change of business” situation for our 2008 taxable year. Therefore, we believe that we are a PFIC with respect to any U.S. shareholder that held our shares in 2008 and 2009. Since the determination of our PFIC status in 2010 (for shareholders that acquire our ordinary shares in 2010) depends on the type of assets we hold during the year and the income derived from such assets, we cannot determine as of yet whether or not we will be a PFIC for the 2010 tax year. Certain elections may be made to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our shares, but these elections may be detrimental to the shareholder under certain circumstances. The PFIC rules are extremely complex and U.S. investors are urged to consult independent tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our classification as a PFIC. For a more detailed discussion of the consequences of our being classified as a PFIC, see “Item 10.E: Taxation” under the caption “U.S. Tax Considerations Regarding Ordinary Shares.” We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. As a result of the HP Transaction, we could be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) if we invest more than 40% of our assets in “investment securities”, as defined in the Investment Company Act. Investments in majority owned securities are not “investment securities” for purposes of this definition. As until recently we have not entered i nto a business combination or developed an operating business, unless we limit the nature of our investments to cash and cash equivalents (which are generally not “investment securities”) and succeed in making strategic “controlling” investments, we may be deemed to be an “investment company.” We do not believe that our engagement in the EPC Project would result in our being deemed to be an “investment company”, as we shall control the Project via a wholly-owned subsidiary. If we were deemed to be an “investment company,” we would not be permitted to register under the Investment Company Act without an order from the SEC permitting us to register because we are incorporated outside of the United States and, prior to being permitted to register, we would not be permitted to publicly offer or promote our securities in the United States. Even if we were permitted to register, it would subject us to additional commitments and regulatory compliance. ; Investments in cash and cash equivalents might not be as favorable to us as other investments we might make if we were not potentially subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. We seek to conduct our operations, including by way of investing our cash and cash equivalents, to the extent possible, so as not to become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. In addition, because we are actively engaged in exploring and considering strategic investments and business opportunities, and in fact have entered the Italian photovoltaic power plants market through a controlling investment, we do not believe that we are currently engaged in “investment company” activities or business. 14 We have undergone, and may in the future undergo, tax audits and may have to make material payments to tax authorities at the conclusion of these audits, including in connection with the sale of our business to HP. Previously to the sale of our business to HP, we conducted business globally and a substantial part of our operations was conducted in various countries. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses and were not assumed or purchased by HP as part of the business sold. Additionally, the amount o f income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Not all of the tax returns of our operations in other countries and in Israel are final and may be subject to further audit and assessment by the applicable tax authorities. The consummation of the transaction with HP may increase the likelihood of additional audits of our tax returns in the future. While we believe we comply with applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes, as a result of which our future results may be adversely affected. Because our ordinary shares are quoted on the pink sheets and their trading may become subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s “penny stock” regulations, the market liquidity of our ordinary shares is very limited. On May 19, 2005, our ordinary shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. The basis of the delisting was our failure to comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted on the over-the-counter market in the “Pink Sheets” under the symbol “EMYCF.PK.” As a result of the removal of our ordinary shares from quotation on the Nasdaq Capital Market, our ordinary shares are not regularly covered by securities analysts and the media and the liquidity of our ordinary shares is very limited. Such limited liquidity could result in lower prices for our ordinary shares than might otherwise prevail and in larger spreads between the bid and asked prices for our ordinary shares. Additionally, certain investors will not purchase securities that are quoted on the pink sheets, which could materially impair our ability to raise funds through the issuance of our ordinary shares in the securities markets. Because our ordinary shares have been removed from quotation on Nasdaq and the trading price of our ordinary shares is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our ordinary shares may become subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Although we currently meet the criteria of net tangible assets in excess of $2 million set forth in Rule 3a51-1(g)(1) which exempts our ordinary shares from being deemed “penny stock, brokers are still subject to special record keeping requirements with respect to our ordinary shares and must demonstrate that we have met these criteria. Pursuant to Rule 15g-9, brokers and dealers who recommend penny stoc ks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including a requirement that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, according to regulations adopted by the SEC, any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on Nasdaq or the OTC Bulletin Board that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions), including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. Such requirements could further limit the market liquidity of our ordinary shares. 15 We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the near future. We have not paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares to date and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the near future. The payment of dividends after completion of a significant business combination will depend on our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition after such business combination is completed and will be within the discretion of our then-board of directors. As a result, any gains on an investment in our securities will need to come through appreciation of the value of such securities.< /font> You may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel and our headquarters are in Israel. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you may not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of such persons. You may not be able to enforce civil actions under U.S. securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. In addition, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Currency fluctuations may affect the value of our assets and decrease our earnings. Substantially all of the consideration for the sale of our business to HP was paid to us in US$. Some of our retained assets and liabilities however are denominated in other currencies. Our recent investment in the Italian photovoltaic power plants market will be denominated in Euro. The devaluation of the United States Dollar against the Euro, other currencies and other currency fluctuations may decrease the value of our assets and could impact our business. Our stock price has decreased significantly and may continue to be volatile, which could adversely affect the market liquidity of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional funds. Our ordinary shares have experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as there is very limited volume of trading in our ordinary shares and every transaction performed significantly influences the market price. The market price for our ordinary shares has generally followed a historical downward trend since 2000. On May 19, 2005, our ordi nary shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market due to our failure to comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted on the over-the-counter market in the “Pink Sheets” under the symbol “EMYCF.PK.” We are now subject to price and volume fluctuations that affect trading in the securities of shell companies, special purpose acquisition companies and other publicly traded investment vehicles. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares in the future. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees, many of whom are generally granted stock options as part of their compensation package, and negatively affect our ability to raise funds through both debt and equity, discourage pot ential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16 If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business, operating results and share price could be materially adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Pursuant to th e requirements of Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to design and evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year that is the subject of this report. Following its review of our internal controls for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, our management concluded that due to the material weaknesses identified in our internal controls over financial reporting, our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of such fiscal years were not effective. In addition, due to the existence of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2007. Although we have implemented corrective measures, documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures and have made improvements in order for us to comply with the requi rements of Section 404 and while our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2008 and 2009, we may still be exposed to claims from regulatory authorities and our shareholders in connection with our ineffective controls in prior years. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. Beginning with our annual report for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, our report in connection with internal control over financial reporting must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on their assessment of the effectiveness of such internal controls. We may need to implement new internal control procedures over financial reporting with respect to the EPC Project and any other operating business we may acquire. We may also experience higher than anticipated operating e xpenses and fees in this context. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, or if our internal controls are found to be ineffective in future periods, whether by our management or by our independent registered accounting firm, it could harm our financial reporting or financial results, impact the market price of our ordinary shares, and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm. We are controlled by a small number of shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree. In February and March 2008, a group of investors comprised of Kanir Joint Investments (2005) Limited Partnership (“Kanir”) and S. Nechama Investments (2008) Ltd. (“Nechama Investments”), acquired a substantial amount of our securities in a series of private transactions and have also entered into a shareholders agreement. Consequently, these shareholders currently hold 62% of our outstanding ordinary shares and, taking into account the convertible securities and other rights held by them, are currentl y the beneficial owners of 72.2% of our ordinary shares. Therefore, acting together, they could exercise significant influence over our business, including with respect to the election of our directors and the approval of change in control and other material transactions. This concentration of control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Moreover, at our general meeting of shareholders held on December 30, 2008, our shareholders adopted our Second Amended and Restated Articles, which were presented to our shareholders at the request of Kanir and Nechama Investments. Several of the amendments, including the casting vote provided to our Chairman of the Board under certain circumstances and the ability of members of our Board to demand that certain issues be approved by our shareholders, requir ing a special majority, all as more fully described in “Item 10.B: Memorandum of Association and Second Amended and Restated Articles,” may have the effect of delaying or preventing certain changes and corporate actions that would otherwise benefit our shareholders. 17 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Risks relating to the EPC Project and our entry into the Italian photovoltaic market This recent investment in the Italian photovoltaic market will represent approximately 10% of our assets at current valuations. The following is a description of the risks specific to the EPC Project. It complements the risk factors described above, both generally and specifically with respect to entry in a new market in a foreign jurisdiction, and is solely based on our due diligence and research, as we have not yet begun operating in this market. Our business depends to a large extent on the availability of financial incentives. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives could reduce our profitability and adversely impact our revenues and growth prospects. Many countries, most notably in Germany, Spain, Italy, the United States and Japan, offer substantial incentives to offset the cost of photovoltaic power systems in the form of feed-in tariffs or other incentives to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependence on other forms of energy. These government incentives could potentially be reduced or eliminated altogether. Currently, the overall photovoltaic capacity ceiling (in the aggregate, from all solar power plants connected to the national grid) that may benefit from the Italian incentives, is 1200 MWp (however, the incentive will still be granted to plants that will be connected to the grid within 14 months following the achievement of the 1200 MWp cap). To date, such cap (1200 MWp) has not been achieved, however according to a published estimate of GSE, it is expected to be achieved in July 2010. If the Italian government will not extend the incentive plan beyond the 1200 MWp cap, this will adversely affect our ability to develop new photovoltaic plants. In general, uncertainty about the introduction of, reducti on in or elimination of incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable laws could substantially affect our profitability and adversely affect our ability to continue and develop new photovoltaic plants. In addition, if we fail to build the photovoltaic plants as planned, we might lose our right to these incentives which could substantially affect our profitability. Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the construction and operation of our photovoltaic power plants, which may significantly reduce our profitability. Installation of photovoltaic power systems are subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with international, European, national and local ordinances, building codes, zoning, environmental protection regulation, utility interconnection requirements and other rules and regulations. For example, various levels of government subject the installation and operation of the plants, and any other component of the EPC Pro ject, to the issuance of relevant permits, licenses and authorizations. If such permits, licenses and authorizations are not issued, or are issued but not on a timely basis, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of the EPC Project, or may require making significant changes to the EPC Project, any of which may cause severe losses. New government regulations or utility policies pertaining to photovoltaic power systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in profitability. For example, total installations caps in certain jurisdictions effectively limit the aggregate amount of power that may be sold by solar power generators into the power grid. 18 We have no experience and no independent expertise in the field of photovoltaic power plants, and are reliant entirely on our professional advisors and on Ecoware for the implementation of the EPC Project. We lack experience and have no independent expertise in the field covered by the EPC Project, that is, the construction, installation, testing, commissioning, operation and maintenance of photovoltaic power plants and the supply of electricity to customers, whether in Italy or elsewhere. Accordingly, we are entirely dependent upon our professional advisors (such as technical and insurance experts) and on Ecoware’s representations, warranties and undertakings regarding, inter alia: the execution and implementation of the EPC Project, Ecoware’s expertise and experience, the use of high-quality materials, securing land use rights and obtaining applicable permits, obtaining the incentive agreement in order to secure the feed-in tariff for the production and delivery of power to the national electricity grid through our photovoltaic power plants, obtaining the power purchase agreement for the sale of the produced electricity to the Italian energy company, obtaining the interconnection agreement with the national electricity grid operator, the commissioning of power plants that are fit for long-term use, strict compliance with applicable legal requirements, Ecoware’s financial stability and the profitability of the venture. If the advice received from our professional advisors is inaccurate, incomplete or otherwise flawed, or if Ecoware’s represen tations or warranties are inaccurate or untrue, or if Ecoware defaults on its obligations, or provides us with a system that is not free from defect which causes a delay in the implementation of the EPC Project, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of the EPC Project, or may require making significant changes to the EPC Project, any of which may cause severe losses to Ellomay. There is also no assurance that we could locate an alternative contractor in the place of Ecoware in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. We are dependent on the supplier that will supply the panels that will be installed in our photovoltaic plants. The lack of reliability of such supplier or of its products, as well as such supplier’s insolvency, may have an adverse effect on our business. Our photovoltaic plant performance depends on the quality of the panels installed. One of the critical factors in the success of our photovoltaic plants is the existence of a reliable panel supplier, who guaranties the performance and quality of the panels he supplied. Degradation in such performance above a certain minimum level is guaranteed by the panel supplier, however, if the supplier i s unreliable or becomes insolvent, he may default on warranty obligations, and such default may cause an interruption in our business or reduction in the generation of energy power, and thus may have an adverse effect on us. Success of the EPC Project, from the construction of the power plants through their commissioning and ongoing commercial operation, will depend to a large extent on the cooperation, reliability, solvency, and proper performance of Ecoware and of the other third parties involved, including subcontractors, financing entities, the land developer and land owners, suppliers of parts and equipment, the energy grid regulator, Italian governmental agencies and other potential purchasers of electricity, and the like. The EPC Project is a complex endeavor requiring timely input often of a highly specialized technical nature, from several parties, including wi thout limitation, the main supplier and contemplated plant operator (Ecoware), other suppliers of relevant parts and materials, the land developer and land owners, subcontractors, financing entities, the Italian government and related agency both as subsidizer and as the purchaser of the electricity to be generated by the power plants and Italian energy regulators. If any of these parties fails to perform its obligations properly and on a timely basis, at any point in the EPC Project, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of the EPC Project, or may require making significant changes to the EPC Project, any of which may cause severe losses to Ellomay. 19 Our ability to leverage our investment and to increase profitability depends, inter alia, on our ability to obtain attractive financing from financial entities. Our ability to obtain financing and the terms of such financing, including interest rates, equity to debt ratio and timing of debt availability will significantly impact the profitability of the EPC Project. We and/or Ecoware may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others with respect to the system components used in the EPC Project, which could prohibit us from implementing and profiting from the EPC Project as contemplated, require us and/or Ecoware to obtain licenses from third parties to develop non-infringing alternatives and subject us and/or Ecoware to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. The solar photovoltaic industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents that could result in frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Th e owners of these patents may assert that the manufacture, use, import, or sale of any part or component of the EPC Project, or the EPC Project as a whole, infringes one or more claims of their patents. Whether or not such claims and applications are valid, we cannot be certain that the components of our system do not infringe the intellectual property rights of such third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs, substantial damages and an interruption, suspension or cessation of the EPC Project. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy sources may negatively impact our ability to profit and expand. The decision to install a photovoltaic power plant is primarily driven by the cost and expected return on investment resulting from solar power systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels, could cause the demand for solar power systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our ability to profit and to expand our business should we wish to do so, and may cause a reduction in the governmental economic incentives. Photovoltaic power plant installations have increased over the past few years. If such trend continues, the increasing demand may drive up the prices of solar panels and other components of the system (such as invertors, steel and cables), impacting our profitability. Additionally, if there is a shortage of key components necessary for the production of the solar panels, that may constrain our revenue growth. The demand for solar panels and other components of the system will likely increase in the future, especially if economic recovery continues, resulting in an increase in the pricing of solar panels and/or other components of the sys tem. Should we decide to expand the business and construct additional plants over time, such increases may adversely affect our profitability. Silicon is a dominant component of the solar panels, and although manufacturing abilities have increased over-time, any shortage of silicon, or any other material component necessary for the manufacture of the solar panels, may adversely affect our business. 20 Our ability to produce solar power is dependant upon the magnitude and duration of sunlight as well as other meteorological factors. As such, the power production has a seasonal cycle, and adverse meteorological conditions can have a material impact on the plant’s output and could result in production of electricity below expected output. This in turn could adversely affect our profitability. As electric power accounts for a growing share of overall energy use, the market for solar energy is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. Many of our competitors who strive to construct new photovoltaic power plants have established more prominent market positions and are more experienced in this field. If we fail to attract and retain ongoing relationships with photovoltaic plants developers, we will be unable to reach additional agreements for the development and operation of additional photovoltaic plants. This could adversely impact our revenues and growth prospects. 