D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves significant risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report before making an investment decision. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have sold our business and currently conduct no business activities. In February 2008, we sold our wide-format printing business, through the sale of substantially all of our assets and liabilities relating to such business, to HP. We have since held our assets, which currently mainly consist of the cash consideration received from HP, in cash and cash equivalents. Since the consummation of the sale of our business, we have concentrated on activities relating to the investment of our funds and handling the winding up of the operations that were not transferred to HP and the remaining aspects relating to the transfer of the business to HP, as well as pursuing our current plan of operation, which is to identify and evaluate suitable business opportunities and strategic alternatives, including through the acquisition of all or part of an existing business, pursuing business combinations or otherwise. Other than activities relating to the transfer of our business to HP, attempting to locate such business opportunities and activities relating to the investment of our funds, we do not currently conduct any operations. 8 We are exposed to potential liabilities in connection with the sale of our business to HP. In connection with the sale of our business to HP, we have agreed to indemnify HP and its subsidiaries that purchased our assets, and their respective officers, directors, employees and affiliates, for certain breaches of the Asset Purchase Agreement, including, among others, any breach or inaccuracy of the representations and warranties, any liabilities that were not assumed by HP and certain environmental matters. Our indemnification liability pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement is generally limited to amounts deposited in an escrow account pursuant to such Agreement ($9.5 million deposited in an indemnity escrow account for a period of 18 months and $5 million deposited for a period of 24 months). However, we agreed that claims for indemnity relating to certain liabilities, including, among others, fraud, willing and intentional breach of warranties, liabilities arising in connection with assets or liabilities that were not purchased by HP, failure to comply with certain restrictive covenants and environmental issues, will not be limited to the amounts deposited in escrow. A claim against us could result in substantial cost, that may, if it relates to certain issues, be paid from sources other than the funds deposited in escrow, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition. The representations and warranties made by us in the Asset Purchase Agreement survive for a period of 18 months following the closing date of the transaction, which occurred on February 29, 2008. We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination. We do not have an agreement or understanding with any third party with respect to the future operations of the Company. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination and we expect to incur expenses in connection with this identification and evaluation process, whether or not such process results in an investment of our funds. While we are actively exploring strategic transactions and opportunities, we have not targeted any particular industry or specific business within an industry in which to pursue such opportunities. We may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history or other negative characteristics such as having limited earnings or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets and negative net worth. We may also pursue a business combination that will not necessarily provide us with significant financial benefits in the short or long term. In the event that we complete a business combination, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the performance of management of the target company and our ability to retain such management and numerous other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of the target businesses we intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business, we cannot assure you that this due diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our due diligence review fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our ordinary shares. 9 The current general economic and business condition around the world and any subsequent economic downturn may adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination, the prospects of any business we may acquire and the trading price of our ordinary shares. During the past two years, and particularly since September 2008, due to the severity of the crisis affecting financial institutions in the United States and in Europe, the rising costs of various commodities, the lack of growth and economic development in the United States and Europe (and, beginning in late 2008, in the rest of the developed world and emerging economies as well) and the developing recession, the general economic and business condition in many countries around the world has worsened, affecting, among other things, credit ratings of borrowers, the perceived and actual credit risks faced by lenders and purchasers of debt securities, the spending habits of consumers, and the ability to procure financing. Although this current crisis may present certain opportunities to companies such as Ellomay that are seeking prospective business combinations, if this current crisis continues, or any further economic downturns ensue, it may adversely affect our ability to procure financing required for prospective business combinations, the value of businesses we acquire and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, this economic downturn also affects the trading prices of securities in various capital markets around the world and may significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. We may not be able to consummate a business combination that will be beneficial to our shareholders. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, private equity funds, special purpose acquisition companies, operating businesses competing for acquisitions, and blank check companies, especially as the prices of potential targets decrease due to the current global financial crisis. Many of these potential acquirers are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Such entities may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. In addition, our history of operations and potential exposures relating to our previous operations may limit our ability to consummate a business combination that will be beneficial to our current shareholders. When we do select a prospective target business or business in which to invest or with which to complete a business combination, we may be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’s operations. To the extent we complete a business combination or investment transaction, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of the acquired business or businesses. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors, or that we will have adequate resources to perform a complete due diligence process. The consummation of a business combination may lead to the dilution of the value of our shares, and may involve the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock or the issuance of debt securities. Issuance of our capital stock would have a dilutive effect over the interests of our shareholders. In the event we enter into a business combination or similar arrangement, it may involve the allocation of a significant amount of cash held by us as a result of the sale of our business to HP. Depending upon the value of the assets acquired in such business combination or investment, the per share value of our ordinary shares may increase or decrease, possibly significantly. In addition, we may need to raise additional financing by issuing our ordinary shares to investors, issuing debt securities or incurring bank or other debt in order to consummate business combinations or acquisitions, and the difficulty of raising capital in the current capital markets environment makes it possible that such ordinary shares or debt securities may be issued at discounts from prevailing market prices. Our second amended and restated articles authorize the issuance of up to 170,000,000 ordinary shares. There are currently 54,893,379 ordinary shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding stock options and warrants). The issuance of additional ordinary shares may significantly reduce your equity interest in Ellomay and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. The incurrence of bank debt or the issuance of debt securities may place restrictions on our ability to operate our business, including leading to default and foreclosure on our assets, subjecting us to restrictive covenants and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing. 10 Our ability to successfully effect business combinations or acquisitions and to be successful thereafter will be significantly dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Several of our key personnel allocate their time to other businesses. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination or acquisition is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including Shlomo Nehama, our chairman of the board, and other members of our board of directors. Although we have entered into a Management Services Agreement with entities affiliated with three of our board members, including Mr. Nehama, these and our other directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. If our directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. If we acquire a business or effect a business combination with a company located outside of Israel or the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may acquire or effect a business combination with a company located outside of Israel or the United States. If we did, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals, tariffs and trade barriers, regulations related to customs and import/export matters, longer payment cycles, tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to Israel and the United States, currency fluctuations and exchange controls, challenges in collecting accounts receivable, cultural and language differences, employment regulations, crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars and deterioration of political relations with Israel. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. As a result of the sale of our business to HP in February 2008, our assets mainly consist of cash and cash equivalents producing passive income. If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or our assets that produce passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders, which may include having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of sales of our ordinary shares and certain distributions. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this decision. Although we believe that for fiscal year 2008 we met the requirements set forth in Section 1298(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, providing an exception from the PFIC status for a “change of business” situation, we cannot assure you, that the Internal Revenue Service or the courts would agree with our conclusion if they were to consider our situation. In addition, we cannot use such exception for two years in succession and therefore if we will meet the criteria of a PFIC, as set forth in the Internal Revenue Code, for fiscal year 2009, we will lose our exception from PFIC status for fiscal 2008 as well. The determination of our PFIC status for fiscal year 2009 will depend on the type of assets we will hold during that year and the income derived from such assets, and if we were to avoid being classified as a PFIC for this year, this would require the closing of an acquisition of an operating business to occur within fiscal 2009, an occurrence that cannot be currently anticipated or in any way assured. Certain elections may be used to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our shares, but these elections may be detrimental to the shareholder under certain circumstances. The PFIC rules are extremely complex and U.S. investors are urged to consult independent tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our possible classification as a PFIC. For a more detailed discussion of the consequences of our being classified as a PFIC, see “Item 10.E: Taxation” under the caption “U.S. Tax Considerations Regarding Ordinary Shares.” 11 We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. As a result of the sale of our business to HP, we could be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”). During the twelve-month period following the sale of our business to HP, we were not deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act, as we relied on an exemption from that act for transient investment companies for a twelve-month period. As we have not entered into a business combination or developed an operating business and such period has expired, unless we limit the nature of our investments and assets and succeed in making strategic “controlling” investments, we may be deemed to be an “investment company.” If we were deemed to be an “investment company,” we would not be permitted to register under the Investment Company Act without an order from the SEC permitting us to register because we are incorporated outside of the United States and, prior to being permitted to register, we would not be permitted to publicly offer or promote our securities in the United States. Such order would subject us to additional commitments and regulatory compliance. We may be required to restrict our investments, in the short-term and in the long-term, so as not to fall within the statutory definition of investment company. Such investments might not be as favorable to us as the investments we might make if we were not potentially subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. We seek to conduct our operations, including by way of investing our cash and cash equivalents, to the extent possible, so as not to become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. In addition, because we are actively engaged in exploring and considering strategic investments and business opportunities we do not believe that we are engaged in “investment company” activities or business. We have undergone, and may in the future undergo, tax audits and may have to make material payments to tax authorities at the conclusion of these audits, including in connection with the sale of our business to HP. Previously to the sale of our business to HP, we conducted business globally and a substantial part of our operations was conducted in various countries. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses and were not assumed or purchased by HP as part of the business sold. Additionally, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Not all of the tax returns of our operations in other countries and in Israel are final and may be subject to further audit and assessment by the applicable tax authorities. The consummation of the transaction with HP may increase the likelihood of additional audits of our tax returns in the future. While we believe we comply with applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes, as a result of which our future results may be adversely affected. 12 Because our ordinary shares are quoted on the pink sheets and their trading may become subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s “penny stock” regulations, the market liquidity of our ordinary shares is very limited. On May 19, 2005, our ordinary shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. The basis of the delisting was our failure to comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted on the over-the-counter market in the “Pink Sheets” under the symbol “EMYCF.PK.” As a result of the removal of our ordinary shares from quotation on the Nasdaq Capital Market, our ordinary shares are not regularly covered by securities analysts and the media and the liquidity of our ordinary shares is very limited. Such limited liquidity could result in lower prices for our ordinary shares than might otherwise prevail and in larger spreads between the bid and asked prices for our ordinary shares. Additionally, certain investors will not purchase securities that are quoted on the pink sheets, which could materially impair our ability to raise funds through the issuance of our ordinary shares in the securities markets. Because our ordinary shares have been removed from quotation on Nasdaq and the trading price of our ordinary shares is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our ordinary shares may become subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Although we currently meet the criteria of average revenues in excess of $6 million set forth in Rule 3a51-1(g)(2) which exempts our ordinary shares from being deemed “penny stock, brokers are still subject to special record keeping requirements with respect to our ordinary shares and must demonstrate that we have met these criteria. In addition, if we do not consummate the acquisition of an operating business in 2009, or if the businesses we do acquire lack sufficient revenues, our ordinary shares may be deemed “penny stock” and would then be subject to the full sales practice requirements of Rule 15g-9. Pursuant to Rule 15g-9, brokers and dealers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including a requirement that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, according to regulations adopted by the SEC, any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on Nasdaq or the OTC Bulletin Board that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions), including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. Such requirements could further limit the market liquidity of our ordinary shares. 13 We do not intend to pay cash dividends prior to the completion of a business combination and may not pay dividends in the future following the completion of a business combination. We have not paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares to date and do not intend to pay cash dividends prior to the completion of a business combination. The payment of dividends after completion of an initial business combination will depend on our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition after a business combination is completed and will be within the discretion of our then-board of directors. As a result, any gains on an investment in our securities will need to come through appreciation of the value of such securities. You may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel and our headquarters are in Israel. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you may not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of such persons. You may not be able to enforce civil actions under U.S. securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. In addition, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Currency fluctuations may affect the value of our assets and decrease our earnings. Substantially all of the consideration for the sale of our business to HP was paid to us in US$. Some of our retained assets and liabilities however are denominated in other currencies. The devaluation of the US$ against such other currencies and other currency fluctuations may decrease the value of our assets and could impact our business. Our stock price has decreased significantly and may continue to be volatile, which could adversely affect the market liquidity of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional funds. Our ordinary shares have experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as there is very limited volume of trading in our ordinary shares and every transaction performed significantly influences the market price. The market price for our ordinary shares has generally followed a historical downward trend since 2000. On May 19, 2005, our ordinary shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market due to our failure to comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted on the over-the-counter market in the “Pink Sheets” under the symbol “EMYCF.PK.” We are now subject to price and volume fluctuations that affect trading in the securities of shell companies, special purpose acquisition companies and other publicly traded investment vehicles. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares in the future. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees, many of whom are generally granted stock options as part of their compensation package, and negatively affect our ability to raise funds through both debt and equity, discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 14 If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business, operating results and share price could be materially adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to design and evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year that is the subject of this report. Following its review of our internal controls for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, our management concluded that due to the material weaknesses identified in our internal controls over financial reporting, our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of such fiscal years were not effective. In addition, due to the existence of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2007. Although we have implemented corrective measures, documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures and have made improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404 and while our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2008, we may still be exposed to claims from regulatory authorities and our shareholders in connection with our ineffective controls in prior years. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. See “Item 15: Controls and Procedures.” Beginning with our annual report for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, our report in connection with internal control over financial reporting must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm have issued an attestation report on their assessment of the effectiveness of such internal controls. Once we acquire an operating business, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures over financial reporting. We may also experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and fees in this context. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, or if our internal controls are found to be ineffective in future periods, whether by our management or by our independent registered accounting firm, it could harm our financial reporting or financial results, impact the market price of our ordinary shares, and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm. We are controlled by a small number of shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree. In February and March 2008, a group of investors comprised of Kanir Joint Investments (2005) Limited Partnership (“Kanir”) and S. Nechama Investments (2008) Ltd. (“Nechama Investments”), acquired a substantial amount of our securities in a series of private transactions and have also entered into a shareholders agreement. Consequently, these shareholders currently hold 62% of our outstanding ordinary shares and, taking into account the convertible securities and other rights held by them, are currently the beneficial owners of 72.3% of our ordinary shares. Therefore, acting together, they could exercise significant influence over our business, including with respect to the election of our directors and the approval of change in control and other material transactions. This concentration of control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Moreover, at our general meeting of shareholders held on December 30, 2008, our shareholders adopted our Second Amended and Restated Articles, which were presented to our shareholders at the request of Kanir and Nechama Investments. Several of the amendments, including the casting vote provided to our Chairman of the Board under certain circumstances and the ability of members of our Board to demand that certain issues be approved by our shareholders, requiring a special majority, all as more fully described in “Item 10.B: Memorandum of Association and Second Amended and Restated Articles,” may have the affect of delaying or preventing certain changes and corporate actions that would otherwise benefit our shareholders. 15 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. 