Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, any one of which could cause our actual results of operations to vary materially from past results or from anticipated future results. Any one of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition or the price of our common stock. The markets for our products are highly competitive. We may not be successful in developing products that enable us to compete effectively. We are a consumer products company and the markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and preferences. We compete with an increasing number of domestic and foreign designers, brands and manufacturers of eyewear, apparel and accessories, electronics, footwear and watches. The number of our competitors and the intensity of competition may increase as we expand into other product lines, or as other companies expand into our product lines. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. We believe our success depends in large part on our ability to continuously develop, market and deliver innovative and stylish products at a pace, intensity and price competitive with other brands. If we face increased competition in the future, or if we are unable to successfully develop and introduce new products that enable us to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences. The markets for our premium sunglasses, prescription eyewear, goggles, apparel, footwear and accessories products are characterized by constant product innovation and changing consumer preferences. We believe that our success depends in large part upon our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely manner and to continually appeal to consumers of the Oakley brand and like-minded individuals. We must continually develop new products, and update our core products, to meet these changing consumer preferences. Any failure by us to offer products that respond to changing consumer preferences, or a shift in consumer preferences and fashion trends away from our products, could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and have an adverse affect on our sales and our results of operations. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We purchase and/or manufacture quantities of inventory based on estimated sales demand for our products. We base our estimates of demand on a number of factors, including our expectations of consumer demand and advance 12 Table of Contents orders from our retail accounts. However, actual consumer demand may differ from our expectations and orders from our retail accounts are subject to cancellation without penalty at any time prior to shipment. The cancellation of existing orders, or the failure of anticipated orders to materialize, could result in our holding a significant amount of unsold inventories. We may be required to offer sales discounts or other incentives to our customers in order to sell such inventories or to write down the carrying value of inventories we are unable to sell. Any such sales discounts or customer incentives or inventory write-downs could have an adverse affect on our sales and our results of operations. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if the manufacturers or others on whom we rely fail to supply sufficient quantities of products to us in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. In such a case, we may be unable to fulfill orders from our customers on a timely basis, which could negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. We could be significantly harmed if any of our key personnel were to depart. Our operations depend to a great extent on the efforts of key executive officers, management and technical personnel, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. The loss of those key executive officers and qualified personnel could cause a significant disruption to our business and could adversely affect our operations. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and could increase our enforcement costs. We have a substantial portfolio of intellectual property rights, including product designs, proprietary manufacturing processes and technologies, product research and concepts and recognized trademarks, all of which we believe are important to the success of our products and our competitive position. We rely in part on patent, trade secret, unfair competition, trade dress, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that any pending trademark or patent application will result in the issuance of a registered trademark or patent, or that any trademark or patent granted will be effective in thwarting competition or be held valid if subsequently challenged. In addition, there can be no assurance that: • the actions we take to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products; • that our proprietary information will not become known to our competitors; • that we can meaningfully protect our rights to unpatented proprietary information; or • that our competitors or others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or better products that do not infringe on our intellectual property rights. The duration of patents varies by country. Over the next four years, 40 U.S. patents and 82 international patents that we currently hold will expire; the remainder of our patents will expire at various dates starting in 2011. We cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, our patents and other proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Consistent with our strategy of vigorously defending our intellectual property rights, we devote substantial resources to the enforcement of patents issued and trademarks granted to us, to the protection of our trade secrets, trade dress or other intellectual property rights and to the determination of the scope or validity of the proprietary rights of others that might be asserted against us. A substantial increase in the level of potentially infringing activities by others could require that we increase significantly the resources we devote to such efforts. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark or similar rights against intellectual property that is important to our business. The resolution or compromise of any litigation or other legal process to enforce such alleged third party rights, regardless of its merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management. We may not prevail in any such litigation or other legal process or we may compromise or settle such claims because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual 13 Table of Contents property disputes and the significant expense in defending such claims. Litigation or other legal process that results in a determination adverse to us could require us to: • pay substantial damages; • discontinue the use of a particular patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret; • cease the manufacture and sale of infringing products; or • license intellectual property rights from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon a single source for the supply of lens blanks. The loss of this or other important suppliers could harm our business. We purchase the uncoated lens blanks from which a majority of our sunglass lenses are cut from a single vendor. In the event of a disruption of the supply of uncoated lens blanks, we believe that suitable lens blanks can be obtained from other sources. However, we cannot assure you that other sources will be able to supply sufficient quantities of lens blanks in a timely manner, or at all. Even if an alternative supply of uncoated lens blanks is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms. The effect of the loss or disruption of the supply of lens blanks or other important materials will depend on the length of time necessary to find and use a suitable alternative source. Difficulties or delays in obtaining an adequate supply of lens blanks or other important materials on favorable terms could impair our ability to fulfill orders from our customers on a timely basis and have a material adverse affect on our sales and our results of operations. Our principal shareholder may exercise control over the Company. Our Chairman, Jim Jannard, beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Mr. Jannard has the ability to control the election of directors and the results of other matters we submit to a vote of our shareholders. This concentration of ownership may have various effects including, but not limited to, delaying or preventing a change of control of Oakley. We have recently acquired, and may in the future acquire, other businesses. We could be negatively impacted if we fail to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. We have recently acquired a number of businesses, including ESS, Oliver Peoples and OSA and in January 2007 we entered into an agreement to acquire Bright Eyes. We may continue to evaluate potential strategic transactions and alternatives that we believe may enhance shareholder value. These potential future transactions may include a variety of different business arrangements, including acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, licensing arrangements, restructurings, divestitures, spin-offs and equity or debt investments. We may incur significant expenses in the evaluation and pursuit of potential transactions and the transactions we evaluate or pursue may not be successfully completed. In these events, we may incur substantial costs without any corresponding benefit. Acquisitions or other transactions that we complete could result in: • issuances of equity securities dilutive to our existing shareholders; • the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; • large one-time write-offs; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • the potential loss of key employees from the acquired business. Integrating acquisitions is often costly, and delays or other operational or financial problems may result that interfere with our operations. If we fail to implement proper business controls for companies we acquire or fail to 14 Table of Contents successfully integrate acquired companies into our business, we may incur unforeseen cost and we may not achieve the anticipated returns on our investment, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, in periods subsequent to an acquisition, we must evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 44.4% (2006), 47.1% (2005) and 47.9% (2004) of our net sales. In addition, we sell our products through our wholly owned subsidiaries in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and we rely on suppliers located outside the United States. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad which could adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • local economic and political conditions; • disruptions of capital and trading markets; • accounts receivable collection and longer payment cycles; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs); • changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements; • tax laws; and • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property. Changes in circumstances or market conditions resulting from these risks may restrict our ability to operate in an affected region and/or adversely affect the profitability of our operations in that region. As part of our overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign exchange contracts in the form of forward and option contracts. The extent to which we use such arrangements may fluctuate from one period to another, depending on a number of factors. Such arrangements can not eliminate all of our foreign exchange risk and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. From time to time certain countries, including the United States, and certain trade organizations, including the European Union (EU) Commission, have imposed safeguard quotas or other trade restrictions which could affect our ability to import our products. In particular, such safeguards have been imposed in response to increases in textiles and apparel imports from China. Certain of our apparel products fall within the categories that have been subject to these safeguards in the United States and the EU. While such safeguard measures have not had a material impact on our sales in the past, we cannot assure you that additional trade restrictions will not be imposed on the imports of our products in the future, or that current or potential future trade restrictions will not adversely affect our sales. In the event that any such trade restrictions were to affect our ability to import products, we may be required to locate alternative suppliers in countries not subject to such trade restrictions, which could result in increases in our cost of goods sold and may adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We are dependent upon endorsement contracts with athletes and personalities, the loss of whom may affect our ability to market our products. Obtaining endorsements from prominent athletes and public personalities is an important element of our marketing strategy. From time to time we enter into endorsement contracts generally having terms from one to four years. We also furnish our products at a reduced cost or without charge to selected athletes and personalities who wear Oakley products without any formal arrangement. We cannot assure you that our relationships with athletes and personalities will continue, that such contracts will be renewed, that the athletes and personalities selected will remain popular or successful or that we will be able to attract new athletes to wear or endorse our products. If we are unable in the future to arrange for endorsements of our products by athletes and/or public personalities on favorable terms, we may be required to modify our marketing plans and could be forced to rely more heavily on other forms of advertising and promotion, which may not prove to be as effective as endorsements. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price for shares of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate significantly. There can be no assurance as to the prices at which our common stock will trade or that an active trading market in our common stock will be sustained in the future. The market price at which our common stock trades may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • the level of research coverage of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations of securities analysts; • general financial and other market conditions; and • domestic and international economic conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of great volatility in the market price of its securities. In the event that we experience volatility or sudden declines in the price of our common stock, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Any such securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate and the amount of our provision for income taxes may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof; • the resolution of issues arising from uncertain positions and tax audits with various tax authorities; and 16 Table of Contents • penalties and/or interest expense that we must recognize on liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our net income for future periods. Moreover, as of December 31, 2006, we have recorded estimated liabilities of $5.8 million for income tax matters under audit or not yet resolved with federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We must adopt Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (FIN 48) as of January 1, 2007. We have not completed our evaluation of uncertain tax positions, and we are currently unable to quantify the amounts of additional deferred income tax assets and income tax liabilities we expect to record upon adoption of FIN 48. In 2007 and subsequent periods, the income tax assets and liabilities we recognize for uncertain tax positions will be adjusted when the related income tax liabilities are paid, the income tax positions are settled with the taxing authorities, the related statutes of limitations expire or under other circumstances as provided in FIN 48. Our assessment of uncertain tax positions requires that we make estimates and judgments about the application of tax law, the expected resolution of uncertain tax positions and other matters. In the event that uncertain tax positions are resolved for amounts different than our estimates, or the related statutes of limitations expire without our being assessed additional income taxes, we will be required to adjust the amounts of the related assets and liabilities in the period in which such events occur. Such adjustments may have a material impact on our provision for income taxes and our results of operations. Moreover, if the FASB, SEC or others further amend or interpret the accounting standards relating to income taxes and uncertain tax positions, or challenge the estimates and judgments we make in applying such accounting standards, we could be required to adjust the amounts of our income tax assets and liabilities or to restate our financial statements. Any such adjustments or restatement could have a material adverse effect on our provision for income taxes, our results of operations and the price of our common stock. We will also be required to recognize additional interest expense each period on the liabilities we have recognized for uncertain tax positions, which will be included in the provision for income taxes in our consolidated income statement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 