D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below as well as the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 13 Risks Related to our Business Risks Related to the PV Plants The majority of our PV Plants are located in Italy and our other 85% owned PV Plant is located in Spain and therefore the revenues derived from them mainly depend on payments received from Italian and Spanish governmental entities. The economic crisis in the European Union, specifically in Italy and in Spain, and measures taken in order to improve Italy’s and Spain’s financial position, may adversely affect the results of our operations. The global financial crisis that began in 2007 directly affected Italy’s and Spain’s growth and economy. The situation worsened during 2011 due to the debt crisis in various European Union countries in general and specifically in Italy, whose current debt is one of the highest in the euro zone and in Spain, who has one of the highest twin deficit, or combined budget and current account deficits, in the world. The debt crisis caused the resignation of Italy’s prime minister and the replacement of Spain’s government in November 2011. The recent elections held in Italy during February 2013 resulted in a political stalemate and as of March 1, 2013, a new government has not been formed yet. In addition, during 2012 and 2013, all three major credit rating agencies downgraded Italy’s and Spain’s debt and all provide for a “negative” outlook for the debt of these countries. The debt crisis also caused the Italian and Spanish governments to adopt various spending cuts and tax increases aimed at bolstering growth and increasing revenues for the repayment of debt. For example, during 2011 Spain implemented changes to its incentive scheme, including the reduction of subsidies through 2013 and the Spanish government adopted a new law in late 2012 that imposes a new revenue tax on electricity generating power plants. The adoption and implementation of these measures continued during 2012 and in September 2012 the European Central Bank pledged to buy unlimited amounts of bonds to lower interest rates for countries like Spain and Italy. However, both countries remain in a state of financial crisis. Although the incentive scheme in Italy is based on end-users payments and not directly on the Italian government’s budget, we cannot assure you that the economic crisis will not cause changes to the Italian government’s photovoltaic energy incentive schemes or that no additional changes will be made in Spain’s photovoltaic energy incentive scheme. In addition, local governments in Italy have also commenced steps aimed at increasing revenues, including, but not limited to, increasing the real estate taxes during 2011 - 2013. There is no assurance that these measures and developments will assist in preventing a continued financial crisis in Italy and in Spain and that the Italian and Spanish governments and municipalities will not undertake additional measures that may directly or indirectly affect our operations and revenues. Our business depends to a large extent on the availability of financial incentives. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives could reduce our profitability and adversely impact our revenues and growth prospects. Many countries, such as Germany, Spain, Italy, France, Portugal and Japan, offer substantial incentives to offset the cost of photovoltaic power systems in the form of feed-in tariffs, or FiT or other incentives to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependence on other forms of energy. These government incentives could potentially be reduced or eliminated altogether. In Italy currently, the Fourth Conto Energia and the Fifth Conto Energia (both as hereinafter defined) provide that in order to become eligible for the incentives, PV plants have to be registered in an ad hoc register held by GSE and may be admitted to the relevant incentives only on the basis of their ranking in such register, which ranking is to be determined in accordance with a number of applicable criteria, including the stage of operations or construction of the relevant PV plant and its capacity. In Spain, which also has a subsidy system for the photovoltaic industry, retroactive cuts of 30% to the feed-in tariffs were adopted in early 2011 by limiting the number of production hours that are eligible to receive the government’s feed-in tariff. The Spanish RD 1578/2008, inter alia, sets power capacity limits, requires registration for the pre-assignment of tariff and sets quotas for aggregate installed power capacity. If the Italian government does not extend the incentive plan or elects to fix a certain cap for subsidized plants connected in the future and if the Spanish government elects to revise the incentive scheme retroactively, as it has done in the past, this will adversely affect the profitability from the PV Plants and from any new photovoltaic plants developed by us or existing photovoltaic plant acquired by us, and may prevent us from continuing to invest in the PV market in Italy or in Spain. In general, uncertainty about the introduction of, reduction in or elimination of incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable laws could substantially affect our profitability and adversely affect our ability to continue and develop new photovoltaic plants. 14 Due to the uncertainty in the photovoltaic filed in Italy and in Spain, we may seek to primarily invest in photovoltaic plants that have already been connected to the Italian or Spanish national grid and are eligible to receive the applicable FiT, which may not be available on terms beneficial to us or at all. As many of the issues with respect to the future legislation and FiT incentive scheme in Italy and in Spain are currently unclear, acquisitions of photovoltaic plants that have already been constructed and are connected to the Italian or Spanish national grid currently provide more certainty as to their economic potential than plants that are still in the construction stage. As the secondary market of photovoltaic plants is not yet developed, it may be difficult for us to locate suitable opportunities and, even if located, the acquisition of an operating photovoltaic plant may require the investment of higher amounts on our part as these assets are generally more expensive. Our inability to locate and acquire additional photovoltaic plants and the higher cost of such photovoltaic plants may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the construction and operation of our photovoltaic power plants, which may significantly reduce our profitability. Installation of photovoltaic power systems is subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with international, European, national and local ordinances, building codes, zoning, environmental protection regulation, utility interconnection requirements and other rules and regulations. For example, various governmental, municipal and other regulatory entities subject the installation and operation of the plants, and any other component of the PV Plants, to the issuance of relevant permits, licenses and authorizations. If such permits, licenses and authorizations are not issued, or are issued but not on a timely basis, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of one or more of our PV Plants, or may require making significant changes to one or more of our PV Plants, any of which may cause severe losses. These licenses and permits may be revoked by the authorities following their issuance in the event the authorities discover irregularities or deviations from the scope of the license or permit. For example, see our reference to the AU with respect to our Pedale PV Plant set forth in “Item 4.B: Material Effects of Government Regulations on the PV Plants.” New government regulations or utility policies pertaining to photovoltaic power systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in profitability. For example, total installations caps in certain jurisdictions effectively limit the aggregate amount of power that is entitled to receive the prevailing FiT. The government regulations are also subject to judicial review that may void certain of the benefits or governmental incentives intended to expedite construction of photovoltaic plants. We may not be able to consummate the acquisition of the Veneto PV Plants and are exposed to certain risks in the period following signing of the definitive agreements and prior to consummation of the acquisition. In January 2013, we executed a binding letter of intent for the acquisition of two photovoltaic plants located in the Veneto Region of Italy. The binding letter of intent provided for the execution of definitive agreements by January 31, 2013 and for a closing of the transactions within a 90-day period thereafter, subject to the fulfillment of certain customary closing conditions. However, as of the date of this report, the parties are still working towards finalizing the definitive agreements. In addition, the transaction is subject to approval of the creditors of the seller. In the event the definitive agreements will be signed, during the period between signing of the definitive agreements and consummation of the acquisition, we will be exposed to certain risks relating to the forfeiture of Euro 12.5M, the non-refundable portion of the consideration we will deposit concurrently with the execution of the definitive agreements. In the event the agreements are not finalized and the transactions are not consummated, or in the event certain risks materialize between signing of the definitive agreements and consummation of the acquisition, our results of operations and profitability will not include the results expected in connection with the acquisition of the Veneto photovoltaic plants and the portion of the consideration may be forfeited. 15 Success of the PV Plants, from their construction through their commissioning and ongoing commercial operation, depends to a large extent on the cooperation, reliability, solvency, and proper performance of the contractors we engage for the construction, operation and maintenance of our PV Plants, or the Contractors, and of the other third parties involved, including subcontractors, financing entities, the land developer and land owners, suppliers of parts and equipment, the energy grid regulator, governmental agencies and other potential purchasers of electricity, and the like. The PV Plants are a complex endeavor requiring timely input often of a highly specialized technical nature, from several parties, including without limitation, the main supplier and contemplated plant operator, other suppliers of relevant parts and materials, the land developer and land owners, subcontractors, financing entities, the Italian or Spanish government and related agencies both as subsidizer and as the purchaser of the electricity to be generated by the power plants and Italian energy regulators. In addition, as we do not operate and maintain our PV Plants, we depend on the representations, warranties and undertakings of the Contractors regarding, inter alia: the operation and maintenance of each of the PV Plants, the Contractors’ expertise and experience, the use of high-quality materials, securing land use rights and obtaining applicable permits, obtaining the incentive agreement in order to secure the FiT for the production and delivery of power to the national electricity grid through our photovoltaic power plants, obtaining the power purchase agreement for the sale of the produced electricity to the energy company, obtaining the interconnection agreement with the national electricity grid operator, the commissioning of power plants that are fit for long-term use, strict compliance with applicable legal requirements, our Contractors’ financial stability and the profitability of the venture. If the Contractors’ representations or warranties are inaccurate or untrue, or if any of the Contractors defaults on its obligations, or provides us with a system that is not free from defect which causes a delay in the operation of one or more of the PV Plants, or if any of the other entities referred to herein fails to perform its obligations properly and on a timely basis or fails to grant us the required permits and certifications on a timely basis, at any point in connection with any of the PV Plants, this could result in the interruption, cessation or abandonment of the relevant PV Plant, or may require making significant changes to the project in connection with the relevant PV Plant, any of which may cause us severe losses. For example, see our reference to the insolvency of one of our Contractors set forth in “Item 4.B: Business Overview.” There is also no assurance that we could locate an alternative contractor in the place of a deficient contractor in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms as several contractors in the field have ceased operations during recent years. We are exposed to the possibility of damages to, or theft of, the various components of our photovoltaic plants. Such occurrences may cause disruptions in the production of electricity and additional financial expenses. During 2012, some of our Italian PV Plants suffered damages as a result of theft of panels and of damages to invertors caused due to bad weather conditions. Although such damages and theft is generally covered by the PV Plants' insurance policies, any such occurrences in the future may cause disruption in the production and measurement of electricity in connection with the relevant photovoltaic plant, may not all be covered by the insurance and may cause an increase in the premiums paid to our insurance companies, which may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. 16 Our involvement and investment in future projects to build and operate photovoltaic plants similar to our PV Plants, in Italy, Spain or elsewhere, is substantially dependent on the applicable regulation and changes in regulation applicable to such projects in the locations we choose. Prior to entering into additional projects similar to the projects that involve the construction and operation of the PV Plants, we will have to ensure that the regulatory framework that will apply to the prospective projects and the thresholds set forth in such regulations (both with respect to timing and energy output) are such that the prospective projects are expected to yield the returns we are interested in. As these regulations are subject to changes, we cannot ensure that the current regulation will be applicable to any future projects and that we will meet the schedule and other requirements set forth in current and future regulations. Any changes in the incentive regime could significantly decrease the expected return on the investment in new projects (or certain projects that have commenced but are not yet in an advanced stage) and therefore our results of operations with respect to existing projects and our interest in new projects. We only have a few years of experience and limited independent expertise in the field of photovoltaic power plants, and are therefore reliant on our professional advisors. We have limited experience and have limited independent expertise in the field of operations relating to the PV Plants, that is, the construction, installation, testing, commissioning, operation and maintenance of photovoltaic power plants and the supply of electricity to customers, whether in Italy, Spain or elsewhere. Although we have a representative in Italy who oversees the operation of our Italian PV Plants, we are still dependent upon our professional advisors (such as technical, legal and insurance experts). If the advice received from our professional advisors is inaccurate, incomplete or otherwise flawed, this could result in the inaccurate evaluation of the value and future prospects of a PV plant, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on the suppliers that supply the panels that will be installed in our photovoltaic plants. The lack of reliability of such suppliers or of their products, as well as such suppliers’ insolvency, may have an adverse effect on our business. Our PV Plants’ performance depends on the quality of the panels installed. One of the critical factors in the success of our PV Plants is the existence of reliable panel suppliers, who guarantee the performance and quality of the panels supplied. During 2011 and 2012, several of the manufacturers of photovoltaic panels became insolvent and certain others have gone through a consolidation process. Degradation in such performance above a certain minimum level is guaranteed by the panel suppliers and we receive undertakings from the Contractor with respect to minimum performances, however, if any of the suppliers is unreliable or becomes insolvent, it may default on warranty obligations, and such default may cause an interruption in our business or reduction in the generation of energy power, and thus may have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. 17 Our ability to leverage our investment and to increase the return on our equity investments depends, inter alia, on our ability to obtain attractive financing from financial entities. Due to the crisis in the European financial markets in general, and in the Italian and Spanish financial markets specifically, obtaining financing from local banks is more difficult, and the terms on which such financing can be obtained are less favorable to the borrowers. Our ability to obtain financing and the terms of such financing, including interest rates, equity to debt ratio and timing of debt availability will significantly impact the return on our equity investments in the PV Plants. Due to the financial crisis in the European Union in general, and in countries like Greece, Spain and Italy specifically, the local Italian and Spanish banks have substantially limited the scope of financing available to commercial firms and the financing that is provided involves terms less favorable than terms provided prior to the financial crisis. In addition, obtaining financing for our PV Plants from financial institutions that are not located in Spain or in Italy is difficult due to such institutions' lack of familiarity with these markets and the underlying assets. Although we have entered into financing agreements with respect to six of the ten Italian PV Plants, there is no assurance that we will be able to procure financing for the remaining four PV Plants in Italy, our PV Plant in Spain or any PV plants we will acquire in the future, on terms favorable to us or at all. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms may cause the return on our investment in one or more of the PV Plants to decrease significantly. In the event we will be unable to continuously comply with the obligations and undertakings, including with respect to financial covenants, which we undertook in connection with the financing of the PV Plants, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In connection with the financing of several of our PV Plants, we have entered into long-term agreements with outside sources of financing, including banks and a leasing company. The agreements that govern the provision of financing include, inter alia, undertakings and financial covenants that we are required to maintain for the duration of such financing agreements. In the event we fail to comply with any of these undertakings and covenants, we may be subject to penalties, future financing requirements, and, finally, to the acceleration of the repayment of debt. These occurrences may have an adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations and on our ability to obtain outside financing for other projects. A drop in the retail price of conventional or other energy sources may negatively impact our ability to expand. The decision to provide regulatory incentives for the construction of photovoltaic power plants, including through the provision of FiT, is also driven by the price of electricity produced by solar power systems compared to the price of electricity produced by conventional or other energy sources. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels, could cause the demand for solar power systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our ability to expand our photovoltaic business should we wish to do so, and may cause a reduction in the governmental economic incentives. Photovoltaic power plant installations have substantially increased over the past few years. The increasing demand for solar panels resulted in oversupply and a share decrease in the prices of solar panels. These events resulted in financial difficulties and consolidation of panel suppliers, which may lead to an increase in the prices of solar panels and other components of the system (such as invertors, steel and cables), impacting the profitability of constructing new photovoltaic plants and our ability to expand our business. Additionally, if there is a shortage of key components necessary for the production of the solar panels, that may constrain our revenue growth. The demand for solar panels and other components of the photovoltaic system might increase in the future subject to the economic condition and to changes in incentive schemes worldwide and in part due to the bankruptcy of several panel manufacturers and the financial difficulties and consolidation of others, resulting in an increase in the pricing of solar panels and other components of the system to the extent the supply of such equipment will not be sufficiently increased as well. Should we decide to expand the business and construct additional plants over time, such increases may adversely affect our profitability. Silicon is a dominant component of the solar panels, and although manufacturing abilities have increased over-time, any shortage of silicon, or any other material component necessary for the manufacture of the solar panels, may adversely affect our business. 18 Our ability to produce solar power is dependent upon the magnitude and duration of sunlight as well as other meteorological factors. The power production has a seasonal cycle, and adverse meteorological conditions can have a material impact on the plant’s output and could result in production of electricity below expected output, which in turn could adversely affect our profitability. As electric power accounts for a growing share of overall energy use, the market for solar energy is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. Many of our competitors who strive to construct new photovoltaic power plants have established more prominent market positions and are more experienced in this field. If we fail to attract and retain ongoing relationships with photovoltaic plants developers, we will be unable to reach additional agreements for the development and operation of additional photovoltaic plants. This could adversely impact our revenues and growth prospects. Delays in the construction of the PV Plants or in the filing of the required documentation with the authorities whether in Italy, Spain or elsewhere may result in loss of our eligibility to receive feed-in-tariffs or impede our ability to obtain financing at terms beneficial to us, or at all, and therefore may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Although all of our PV Plants are currently fully constructed and connected to the applicable national grid, we have experienced delays in the completion of the construction or connection to the Italian national grid in connection with five of our PV Plants, which did not result in changes of the applicable FiT. In the event we acquire additional PV Plants that are not fully constructed, delays in construction and filing of documentation could cause a delay in connection to the grid and the application of a different, lower, FiT. Although the contracts that govern the construction of these PV Plants include a system of liquidated damages and price reductions that apply in the event of delays or loss of certain FiT, these remedies are limited and may not completely offset the damages caused to us. Our limited ability to protect ourselves against damages caused due to delays, as well as any additional delays with respect to the PV Plants or other PV plants we may acquire in the future, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. We and any of the respective Contractors may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others with respect to the system components used in the PV Plants, which could prohibit us from implementing and profiting from the PV Plants as contemplated, require us and the respective Contractor to purchase licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives and subject us and the respective Contractor to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. The solar photovoltaic industry is characterized by the existence of patents that could result in litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. The owners of these patents may assert that the manufacture, use, import, or sale of any part or component of the PV Plants, or the PV Plants as a whole, infringes one or more claims of their patents. Whether or not such claims and applications are valid, any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs, substantial damages and an interruption, suspension or cessation of any or all of the PV Plants. Even if the holders of the patents do not succeed in their claims of misappropriation or infringement, the litigation process involving patent infringement is very expensive and lengthy and sometimes involves temporary injunctions and could therefore materially affect our profitability and operating results. 19 Risks Relating to Our Investment in Dori Energy We hold a minority stake in Dori Energy, who, in turn, holds a minority stake in Dorad. Therefore, we have no control on the operations and actions of Dorad. Following the consummation of the Dori Investment in January 2011, we currently hold 40% of the equity of Dori Energy (both as defined in “Item 4.B: Business Overview”) who, in turn, holds 18.75% of Dorad. Although we entered into a shareholders’ agreement with Dori Energy and the other shareholder of Dori Energy, U. Dori Group Ltd., or the Dori SHA, providing us with joint control of Dori Energy, should differences of opinion as to the management, prospects and operations of Dori Energy arise, such differences may limit our ability to direct the operations of Dori Energy. In addition, Dori Energy holds a minority stake in Dorad and as of the date hereof is entitled to nominate only one director in Dorad, which, according to the Dori SHA, we are entitled to nominate. Although we have one representative on the Dorad board of directors, we have no control over Dorad’s operations. These factors may potentially adversely impact the business and operations of Dorad and Dori Energy in a manner that is adverse to us. The Dori Energy Shareholders Agreement contains restrictions on our right to transfer our holdings in Dori Energy, which may make it difficult for us to terminate our involvement with Dori Energy. The Dori SHA contains several restrictions on our ability to transfer our holdings in Dori Energy, including a “restriction period” during which we are not allowed to transfer our holdings in Dori Energy (other than to permitted transferees) and, thereafter, certain mechanisms such as a right of first refusal. The aforesaid restrictions may make it difficult for us to terminate our involvement with Dori Energy should we elect to do so and may adversely affect the return on our investment in Dori Energy. Non-compliance of the other shareholder of Dori Energy with its undertakings in connection with the financing of Dorad’s operations may require us to infuse finance to Dori Energy, which may adversely affect the return on our investment in Dori Energy. The Dori Investment Agreement (as defined in “Item 4.B: Business Overview”) contains various undertakings by the Dori Group in connection with the financing of Dori Energy’s financial obligations to Dorad, including an undertaking to provide financing should financing not be obtained from certain outside sources. In addition, in connection with a financing agreement with Israel Discount Bank Ltd., Ellomay Energy LP and the Dori Group undertook to extend their pro rata share of any funding required by Dorad from Dori Energy in the future. During 2012, as a result of differences between us and the Dori Group with respect to financing obligations of Dori Energy, we agreed to amend the Dori Investment Agreement as more fully described in "Item 4.B: Business Overview." However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reach a resolution with respect to other potential differences and disputes that may arise in the future. Noncompliance by the Dori Group with respect to this or any of its other undertakings to us and to Dori Energy in the Dori Investment Agreement or in the agreement with Israel Discount Bank Ltd. may impose additional financing requirements on us or result in a default of Dori Energy with respect to its undertakings to finance Dorad, which may adversely affect the return on our investment in Dori Energy. 20 Dorad, which is currently the only substantial asset held by Dori Energy, is involved in a complex project that includes the construction and thereafter the management of the Dorad power plant, and its successful operations and profitability is dependent on a variety of factors, many of which are not within Dorad’s control. Dorad is involved in the construction of a combined cycle power plant based on natural gas, with a production capacity of approximately 800 MW, or the Dorad Project, on the premises of the Eilat-Ashkelon Pipeline Company, or EAPC, located south of Ashkelon, Israel. The Dorad Project is subject to various complex agreements with third parties (the Israeli Electric Company, or IEI, the contractor, suppliers, private customers, etc.) and to regulatory restrictions and guidelines in connection with, among other issues, the tariffs to be paid by the IEI to Dorad for the energy produced. Various factors and events, both during the construction period of the Dorad Project and during the operations of the power plant, may materially adversely affect Dorad’s results of operations and profitability and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on Dori Energy’s and our results of operations and profitability. These factors and events include: · The Dorad Project is in the construction phase and during such period Dorad is exposed to various risks, including, without limitation, in connection with noncompliance or breach by the contractor involved in the construction, noncompliance by Dorad or any of its shareholders with their undertaking to finance the Dorad Project, which may result, inter alia, in fines and penalties being imposed on Dorad, defects or delays in the construction due to the contractor or outside events and delays in supply of equipment required for the construction of the Dorad Project; · Following the construction of the Dorad Project, and during the operation of the power plant, the profitability of Dorad will depend, among other things, on the income from other end-users that may purchase energy directly from Dorad based on tariffs negotiated between Dorad and such end-users. In addition, the profitability of Dorad will also depend on the tariff that will be paid to it by the IEI, which is governed by Israeli regulation and is therefore subject to changes and updates in the future that may not necessarily involve negotiations or consultations with Dorad, and on the balance and mixture of sales to end-users and to the IEI. The competitive landscape, involving both the IEI and other private energy producers, is also a factor that is expected to have bearing on the profitability of Dorad; · Dorad’s operations are mainly financed by a consortium of financing entities pursuant to a long-term credit facility and such credit facility provides for pre-approval by the consortium of certain of Dorad’s actions and contracts with third parties. Changes in the credit ratings of Dorad and its shareholders, non-compliance with financing and other covenants, delays in provision of required pre-approvals or disagreements with the financial entities and additional factors may affect the prevailing interest rates and may adversely affect Dorad’s operations and profitability; The Dorad Project is located in Ashkelon, a town in the southern part of Israel, in proximity to the Gaza Strip. The location of the Dorad Project is within range of missile strikes from the Gaza Strip. In recent years, there has been an escalation in violence and missile attacks from the Gaza Strip, including an eight day period in November 2012 more than 1,500 missiles were fired from Gaza Strip to Northern and Central Israel. This attack disrupted the work on the Dorad Project, which resumed after the missile strikes ceased. Any such further attacks to the area or any direct damage to the location of the Dorad Project may disrupt the construction of the Dorad Project and thereafter its operations, and may cause financial losses and delays; and 21 · Dorad entered into a long-term gas supply agreement with Tamar (as defined in “Item 4.B” Business Overview”), which is subject to several conditions to closing and requires regulatory and other consents. This agreement includes a “take or pay” mechanism that may result in Dorad paying for gas that is not actually required for its operations. In addition, as Tamar is currently Dorad’s sole supplier of gas and Dorad will depend on the timely, continuous and uninterrupted supply of gas from Tamar and on the existence of sufficient reserves throughout the term of the agreement with Tamar. In the event the conditions to closing of the agreement with Tamar are not met or waived by the parties or any of the required consents is delayed or withheld, Dorad’s ability to commence operations using natural gas and therefore its results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, following the closing of the Agreement with Tamar, in the event Dorad will be required to pay for gas that it does not need or in the event of any delays, disruptions or shortages in the gas supply from Tamar, Dorad’s results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Other Activities Investing and operating in the oil and gas exploration and drilling field, in Israel and in general, is a highly speculative activity, involving a variety of risks, which may, individually or in the aggregate, result in the loss of all of our investments in the field and adversely affect the results of our operations and our profitability. During 2011 we entered into farmout agreements with respects to four oil and gas explorations and drilling licenses, but the transfer to us of the rights in such licenses under said agreements has not been approved by the Petroleum Commissioner in the Israeli Ministry of Energy and Oil Resources. Moreover, all four licenses have expired and the Petroleum Commissioner announced that they will not be renewed. In addition, in January 2012 we farmed in to 20% of the Yitzhak License. The Yitzhak JOA (as defined under "Item 4.A: History and Development of Ellomay") provides that we may, until we have invested an amount of $2 million, reduce our investments and thereby reduce our holdings in the Yitzchak license. To date, we funded approximately $554,000 which only represents 10% of the total cash calls to the partners in the Yitzhak license expenses. At this stage, exploratory drilling has not yet commenced by the current holders of the Yitzhak License and the holders of the Yitzhak License have finalized their review of the results of 2D and 3D seismic studies performed in the area of the Yitzchak License and of a prospective resources report. Our investment and possible future operations in the Israeli oil and gas exploration and drilling field involves, inter alia, the following risks: · Exploring and developing oil and gas wells involves substantial financial expenses and a high probability of loss of the entire investment. The current research tools do not provide accurate estimates concerning the scope and location of oil and gas reservoirs or the ability to produce commercial quantities of oil or gas from existing reservoirs. Future exploration and development expenditures made by us, if any, may not result in the discovery of commercial quantities of oil or gas in the Yitzchak License or in any properties we may acquire some or all of the rights to in the future. If we are unable to find commercially exploitable quantities of oil and gas in the Yitzchak License or in any properties we may acquire in the future, or if we are unable to commercially extract such quantities we may find in any properties we will lose the entire amount invested in such activity, which may adversely affect the results of our operations and profitability; 22 ● Oil and gas explorations and drilling are subject to extensive Israeli government regulations, both in connection with the operations and with the treatment of any future income from such operations (such as requirements in connection with taxes and royalties), which may be changed from time to time. In addition, many actions that are required to be undertaken in connection with the Yitzchak License operations, such as geological and geophysical works and drilling, require the continuation of the Yitzchak License and the issuance of permits and obtaining of consents from various regulatory entities and third parties. We cannot ensure that there will not be any adverse changes in applicable regulation or that the holders of the Yitzchak License, including us, will be able to timely obtain all of the required permits and consents and that such permits and consents, if obtained, will not contain conditions that are adverse to us. Any adverse changes in legislation, inability to obtain required permits and consents or adverse conditions included in permits or consents may cause the continued oil and gas operations to become commercially unproductive, delay or prevent the operations in connection with the Yitzchak License, thereby causing the loss of our investment in the Yitzchak License and adversely affecting our results of operations; ● The cost of oil and gas explorations and development is substantial and uncertain and we may be required to invest additional funds in the Yitzchak License in the future in order to maintain our holdings. In the event we will not have sufficient funds, or will not be able to obtain additional funds from outside sources on terms acceptable to us or at all, or we choose not to continue investing in the Yitzchak License and in other oil and gas exploration and drilling licenses, our holdings in the Yitzchak License will be diluted and our involvement in the oil and gas exploration field will be limited. In addition, in the event the other holders of the Yitzchak License will not be able to, or will choose not to, invest additional funds they are required to invest, and the other holders of the Yitzchak License will not be able to cover that shortage of funds or to locate additional financing sources, the operations of the Yitzchak License may not commence or may abruptly cease and such delays or cessation may cause the Israeli governmental authorities to revoke or suspend the license due to the holders’ inability to meet the milestones and timeline required in connection with the license. In addition, due to recent negative results in several of the Israeli exploration licenses, it is difficult for entities that operate in this field to raise funds in the Israeli capital markets. Based on public disclosures to various regulatory authorities during the recent months, the financial condition and resources of Adira, the main partner in the Yitzchak License, have deteriorated and it is in dispute with some of its partners in another license, an issue that caused us to record a loss in the amount of our aggregate investment in the Yitzchak License; ● Drilling for oil and gas involves additional numerous risks and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, operation failures causing, among other things, leaks or explosions, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment; and ● The gas exploration and drilling field in Israel is highly competitive, and many of our competitors for available properties, such as Delek Drillings, Avner Oil and Gas, Isramco and others, are large, well-known oil and gas companies backed by shareholders and owners with available funds and expertise that are beyond those that we currently have. Our inability to enter further into the oil and gas explorations and drilling field in Israel will limit the allocation of the risks we undertake in that field and any loss in the Yitzchak License will adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, recent drillings in other licenses granted by the Israeli government have not been successful, resulting in lower interest of potential investors and potential holders of participation rights, limiting our options to obtain financing for additional activities in the field or to locate potential partners for other available licenses. 23 We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating additional suitable business opportunities in the fields that we are concentrating on. Except with respect to the agreements necessary or incidental to the PV Plants such as our recent binding Veneto Letter of Intent (as hereinafter defined and subject to execution of definitive agreements), the investments in Dori Energy and the Yitzchak License, we do not have an agreement or understanding with any third party with respect to our future operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities and we expect to incur expenses in connection with this identification and evaluation process, whether or not such process results in an investment of our funds. We may enter into an investment agreement in a business entity having no significant operating history or other negative characteristics such as having limited earnings or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets and negative net worth. We may also pursue business opportunities that will not necessarily provide us with significant financial benefits in the short or long term. In the event that we complete an investment, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the performance of management of the target company (or the ability to successfully outsource certain management functions) and our ability to retain such management and numerous other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of target businesses that we would intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process, such that in practice our due diligence efforts may be more limited in scope and extent. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business, we cannot assure you that this due diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our due diligence review fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and may not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our ordinary shares. The current general economic and business conditions around the world and any subsequent economic downturn may adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination, the prospects of any business we may acquire and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Since mid-2008, due to the severity of the crisis affecting financial institutions throughout the world, the rising costs of various commodities, the limited growth and economic development throughout the world, as well as the recession, the general economic and business conditions in many countries around the world worsened, affecting, among other things, credit ratings of borrowers, the perceived and actual credit risks faced by lenders and purchasers of debt securities, the solvency of trade partners, market entities’ appetite for risk, the spending habits of consumers, the ability to procure financing. This crisis disproportionately affected Europe during 2011 and 2012 and many European economies, including Italy and Spain. Despite signs of possible recovery in the United States (where we presently have no operations), there is no assurance that this financial crisis will improve or be resolved over the short, medium or long term, or that the recession will be overcome in its entirety in the near or far future, or that any of the trends associated with such recession will be reversed in whole or in part. Furthermore, if any further economic downturns ensue, this may adversely affect our ability to procure financing required for prospective business combinations, the value of businesses we acquire and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if such further economic downturn will occur, it may also affect the trading prices of securities in various capital markets around the world and may significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. 24 We may not be able to consummate investments and acquisitions that will be beneficial to our shareholders. We expect to encounter significant competition from entities having a business objective similar to ours, including our existing competitors in the solar energy field. Many of these potential competitors are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business opportunities in the renewable energy field. Such entities may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources may be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Our ability to successfully effect business combinations or acquisitions and to be successful thereafter will be significantly dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Several of our key personnel allocate their time to other businesses. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination or acquisition is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including Shlomo Nehama, our chairman of the board, Ran Fridrich, a director and our Chief Executive Officer, Hemi Raphael, a member of our board, and other members of our board of directors. Although we have entered into a Management Services Agreement with entities affiliated with three of our board members, Messrs. Nehama, Fridrich and Raphael, these directors and our other directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. If our directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. As a substantial part of our business is currently located in Europe, we are subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We currently have substantial operations in Italy and may make additional investments in businesses, located outside of Israel or the United States. Due to these operations and any additional future investments, we are subject to special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the other jurisdiction, including rules and regulations, currency conversion, corporate withholding taxes, tariffs and trade barriers, regulations related to customs and import/export matters, different payment cycles, tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to Israel and the United States, currency fluctuations and exchange controls, challenges in collecting accounts receivable, cultural and language differences, employment regulations, crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars and deterioration of political relations with Israel. The PV Plants subject us to a number of these risks, as well as the requirement to comply with Italian, Spanish and European Union law. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. 25 Currency and interest rate fluctuations may affect the value of our assets and our interest payment obligations and decrease our earnings. Substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits are held in US$. However, our investments in equity accounted investees so far have been, and some of our retained assets and liabilities in our subsidiaries in Italy and Spain are, denominated in other currencies (Euro and NIS). In addition, the financing we have obtained in connection with six of our PV Plants bears interest that is based on EURIBOR rate and therefore our repayment obligations and undertakings may be affected by adverse movements in the interest rates. Although we attempt to manage these risks by entering into hedging transactions as more fully explained in “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” we cannot ensure that we will manage to eliminate these risks in their entirety and the devaluation of the United States Dollar against the Euro or the NIS, other currency fluctuations and interest rate fluctuations may decrease the value of our assets and could impact our business. Risks Relating to the Results and Effects of the HP Transaction We are likely to be characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, for any taxable year that our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed specified levels, we will be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders, which may include having certain distributions on our ordinary shares and gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of sales of our ordinary shares and certain distributions. Based on our income and/or assets, we believe that we were a PFIC with respect to any U.S. shareholder that held our shares in 2008, 2009 and 2010. We also believe, based on our assets, that it is likely that we were a PFIC with respect to U.S. shareholders that held our ordinary shares in 2011 and 2012. Since the determination of our PFIC status in 2013 (for shareholders that acquire our ordinary shares in 2013) depends on the type of assets we hold during the year and the income derived from such assets, we cannot determine as of yet whether or not we will be a PFIC for the 2013 tax year. Certain elections may be made to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our shares, but these elections may be detrimental to the shareholder under certain circumstances. The PFIC rules are extremely complex and U.S. investors are urged to consult independent tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our classification as a PFIC. For a more detailed discussion of the consequences of our being classified as a PFIC, see “Item 10.E: Taxation” under the caption “U.S. Tax Considerations Regarding Ordinary Shares.” 26 We may be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. As a result of the HP Transaction, we could be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the “Investment Company Act”, if we invest more than 40% of our assets in “investment securities,” as defined in the Investment Company Act. Investments in securities of majority owned subsidiaries (defined for these purposes as companies in which we control 50% or more of the voting securities) are not “investment securities” for purposes of this definition. As we still maintain a significant portion of our assets in cash and cash equivalents and not all of our investments are in majority owned securities, unless we limit the nature of our investments of our cash assets to cash and cash equivalents (which are generally not “investment securities”), succeed in making strategic “controlling” investments and continue to monitor our investments that may be deemed to be “investment securities,” we may be deemed to be an “investment company.” We do not believe that our holdings in the PV Plants would be considered “investment securities,” as we control the PV Plants via wholly-owned subsidiaries and we do not believe that the current fair value of our short-term deposits and holdings in Dori Energy (all as more fully set forth under “Item 4.A: History and Development of Ellomay” and “Item 4.B: Business Overview”), all of which may be deemed to be “investment securities,” would result in our being deemed to be an “investment company.” If we were deemed to be an “investment company,” we would not be permitted to register under the Investment Company Act without an order from the SEC permitting us to register because we are incorporated outside of the United States and, prior to being permitted to register, we would not be permitted to publicly offer or promote our securities in the United States. Even if we were permitted to register, it would subject us to additional commitments and regulatory compliance. Investments in cash and cash equivalents might not be as favorable to us as other investments we might make if we were not potentially subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. We seek to conduct our operations, including by way of investing our cash and cash equivalents, to the extent possible, so as not to become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. In addition, because we are actively engaged in exploring and considering strategic investments and business opportunities, and in fact the majority of our investments to date (mainly in the Italian and Spanish photovoltaic power plants markets) were made through a controlling investment, we do not believe that we are currently engaged in “investment company” activities or business. Risks Relating to our Ordinary Shares You may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel and our headquarters are in Israel. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to effect service of process upon us or any of these persons within the United States. In addition, you may not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of such persons in Israel and in any event will be required to file a request with an Israeli court for recognition or enforcement of any non-Israeli judgment. Subject to certain time limitations, executory judgments of a United States court for liquidated damages in civil matters may be enforced by an Israeli court, provided that: (i) the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction, that recognizes and enforces similar judgments of Israeli courts and according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, (ii) adequate service of process was effected and the defendant had a reasonable opportunity to be heard, (iii) the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel, (iv) the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties, (v) the judgment is no longer appealable, and (vi) an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. You may not be able to enforce civil actions under U.S. securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. 27 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay or a controlling position in Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Ellomay, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. We have undergone, and will in the future undergo, tax audits and may have to make material payments to tax authorities at the conclusion of these audits. Prior to the sale of our business to HP, we conducted business globally and a substantial part of our operations was conducted in various countries and our past tax obligations were not assumed or purchased by HP as part of the business sold. Since the execution of the contracts in connection with the PV Plants and our other investments, we now also conduct our business globally (currently in Israel, Italy and Spain). Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses. Additionally, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Not all of the tax returns of our operations in other countries and in Israel are final and we will be subject to further audit and assessment by the applicable tax authorities. While we believe we comply with applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes, as a result of which our future results may be adversely affected. We are controlled by a small number of shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree and which may also prevent a change of control via purchases in the market. Currently, a group of investors comprised of Kanir Joint Investments (2005) Limited Partnership, or Kanir and S. Nechama Investments (2008) Ltd., or Nechama Investments, hold an aggregate of 59.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Shlomo Nehama, our Chairman of the Board who controls Nechama Investments holds directly an additional 4.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares, Ran Fridrich, our CEO and a member of our Board of Directors, holds directly an additional 1.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares and Hemi Raphael, a member of our Board of Directors who, together with Ran Fridrich, controls the general partner of Kanir, directly and indirectly holds an additional 4.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Therefore, acting together, these shareholders could exercise significant influence over our business, including with respect to the election of our directors and the approval of change in control and other material transactions. This concentration of control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Moreover, our Second Amended and Restated Articles includes the casting vote provided to our Chairman of the Board under certain circumstances and the ability of members of our Board to demand that certain issues be approved by our shareholders, requiring a special majority, all as more fully described in “Item 10.B: Memorandum of Association and Second Amended and Restated Articles,” may have the effect of delaying or preventing certain changes and corporate actions that would otherwise benefit our shareholders. 28 Our ordinary shares are listed on the NYSE MKT and our non-compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NYSE MKT could cause the delisting of our ordinary shares, the market liquidity and analyst coverage of our ordinary shares is very limited. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NYSE MKT under the symbol “ELLO.” Prior to the listing of our ordinary shares on the NYSE MKT on August 22, 2011, our ordinary shares were quoted on the over-the-counter market in the OTCQB market, which is operated by OTC Markets, Inc. The NYSE MKT requires listed companies to comply with continued listing requirements, including with respect to stockholders’ equity, distribution of shares and low selling price. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to qualify for listing on the NYSE MKT. If the Company’s ordinary shares are delisted from the NYSE MKT, trading in our ordinary shares could be conducted on an electronic bulletin board such as the OTC Bulletin Board, which could affect the liquidity of our ordinary shares and the ability of the shareholders to sell their ordinary shares in the secondary market, which, in turn, may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, our ordinary shares are not yet regularly covered by securities analysts and the media and the liquidity of our ordinary shares is very limited. Such limited liquidity could result in lower prices for our ordinary shares than might otherwise prevail and in larger spreads between the bid and asked prices for our ordinary shares. These issues could materially impair our ability to raise funds through the issuance of our ordinary shares in the securities markets. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the near future. We have not paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares to date and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the near future. The payment of dividends will depend on our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements, general financial condition and applicable legal constraints in connection with distribution of profits and will be within the discretion of our then-board of directors. As a result, any gains on an investment in our ordinary shares will need to come through appreciation of the value of such shares. Our stock price has decreased significantly in the past and may continue to be volatile, which could adversely affect the market liquidity of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional funds. Our ordinary shares have experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as there is still very limited volume of trading in our ordinary shares and every transaction performed significantly influences the market price. Although our ordinary shares have been listed on the NYSE MKT since August 22, 2011, there is still limited liquidity and limited analyst coverage of our business and prospects, and these circumstances, combined with the general economic and political conditions, cause the market price for our ordinary shares to continue to be volatile. The continuance of such factors and other factors relating to our business may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares in the future. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in the price of our ordinary shares may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees, many of whom are generally granted stock options as part of their compensation package, and negatively affect our ability to raise funds through both debt and equity, discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business, operating results and share price could be materially adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to design and evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year that is the subject of this report. We cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. In addition to procedures already implemented in coneection with our PV Plants and other investments, we may in the future need to implement new procedures for internal control over financial reporting in connection with our current business or any other operating business we may acquire. We may also experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and fees in this context. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, or if our internal controls are found to be ineffective in future periods, it could harm our financial reporting or financial results and impact the market price of our ordinary shares. 29 