D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves significant risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report before making an investment decision. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity is dependent on our ability to continue our recent revenue growth and successful expense reduction initiatives, and on the availability of additional debt or equity financing. If we are unable to secure necessary additional financing, through debt or equity financing, we may not be able to fund our operations and would potentially have to sell assets, refinance debt or downsize operations. Our net loss decreased to $1.9 million in 2006 from $14.7 million in 2005. We believe that our liquidity and profitability have improved since 2005, and anticipate that they will continue to improve in 2007, but we were still unable to generate cash from operations in 2006 and there can be no assurance that we will achieve profitability or positive cash flow in 2007. We have recently relied on equity financing to fund our operations due to our inability to generate cash from operations. In January and February 2007, we raised approximately $6.3 million through a private placement of our ordinary shares and warrants to purchase our ordinary shares. However, due to the risks described herein, and if we fail to achieve our revenue goals and expense reduction targets, in the future we may be unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital and research and development and therefore we may be required to seek additional equity and/or debt financing. These financings may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. An equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Our failure to secure additional financing could have an adverse impact on our continued development or growth. 7 If we are unable to comply with certain covenants contained in our bank loans, our lender banks may declare a default and exercise their remedies. If our lender banks exercise these remedies we may not be able to continue our operations. If we do not meet certain covenants provided for in our loan agreements with our lender banks, our lender banks may exercise the remedies available under such loan agreements, including requiring us to immediately repay our outstanding bank debt or enforcing a lien against all our assets. We agreed to maintain certain financial ratios, which will be measured on each quarter following the end of the third quarter of 2008. If we default under our bank loans and our lender banks exercise their available remedies, we may be forced to cease operations. If we ceased operations and were forced to liquidate no assets would be available for distribution to holders of our ordinary shares. Because our ordinary shares are quoted on the pink sheets and their trading may become subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s “penny stock” regulations, the market liquidity of our ordinary shares is very limited. On May 19, 2005, our ordinary shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. The basis of the delisting was our failure to comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted on the over-the-counter market in the “Pink Sheets” under the symbol “NURMF.PK.” As a result of the removal of our ordinary shares from quotation on the Nasdaq Capital Market, our ordinary shares are not regularly covered by securities analysts and the media and the liquidity of our ordinary shares is very limited. Such limited liquidity could result in lower prices for our ordinary shares than might otherwise prevail and in larger spreads between the bid and asked prices for our ordinary shares. Additionally, certain investors will not purchase securities that are quoted on the pink sheets, which could materially impair our ability to raise funds through the issuance of our ordinary shares in the securities markets. Because our ordinary shares have been removed from quotation on Nasdaq and the trading price of our ordinary shares is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our ordinary shares may become subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Although we currently meet the criteria of average revenues in excess of $6 million set forth in Rule 3a51-1(g)(2) which exempts our ordinary shares from being deemed “penny stock,” brokers are still subject to special record keeping requirements with respect to our ordinary shares and must demonstrate that we have met these criteria. Pursuant to Rule 15g-9, brokers and dealers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including a requirement that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, according to regulations adopted by the SEC, any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on Nasdaq or the OTC Bulletin Board that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions), including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. Such requirements could further limit the market liquidity of our ordinary shares. 8 We depend on a few key products in a business subject to rapid technological change and any decline in demand for these products could severely harm our ability to generate revenues. We depend upon the sale of our principal products - the NUR Fresco™ printers, the NUR Tempo printers, the NUR Expedio™ printers and the NUR Tango printers, and upon the sale of ink products. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid changes in technology, customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Our future financial performance will depend upon our ability to update our current products and develop and market new products to keep pace with technological advances in the industry. During 2004, 2005 and 2006, we invested approximately $8.0 million, $7.1 million and $5.8 million, respectively, in research and development projects. Although we plan to continue to invest in research and development, our business could seriously suffer if we fail to anticipate or to respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or if our products are delayed in their development or introduction. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop any new products. If our competitors introduce new products, the sales of our existing products and our financial results could be negatively affected. Our reliance on sole source suppliers for certain components of our printers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budgets. We currently purchase certain components used in our NUR Fresco, NUR Tempo and NUR Expedio printers from sole suppliers. If any of these sole suppliers experience problems that result in production delays, our sales to new customers and existing customers that rely on our inkjet components to operate their printers could be delayed. Production delays could result from fire, flood or other casualty, work stoppages, production problems or other unforeseen circumstances. Although we have not experienced any major production delays to date, we cannot assure you that such delays will not occur in the future. Because the success of our business depends on the sale of our printers, supply problems could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, if any of our sole suppliers reduce or change the credit or payment terms they extend to us, our business and results of operations could also be harmed. We rely on subcontractors to help us manufacture our products and if they are unable to adequately supply us with components and products, we may be unable to deliver our products to customers on time or without defects. We employ a limited number of unaffiliated subcontractors to manufacture components for our printers. Because we rely on subcontractors, however, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain an adequate supply of components or products. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of the components we purchase will satisfy our quality standards and be delivered on time. Our business could suffer if we fail to maintain our relationships with our subcontractors or fail to develop alternative sources for our printer components. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop alternative sources of production for our products. 9 The market for our printers is very competitive and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. The printing equipment industry is extremely competitive and many of our competitors may have greater management, financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We compete against several companies that market digital printing systems based on drop-on-demand inkjet technology and other technologies that are similar to the technologies utilized in our products. These competitors have introduced products that compete with the NUR Fresco, the NUR Tempo and the NUR Expedio printers. We have also witnessed continued growth of the Chinese and Korean markets where Chinese and Korean companies that were developing, manufacturing and selling inexpensive printers mainly to the local markets, have also begun penetrating the international market. Our ability to compete depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including the performance and acceptance of our current printers and any products we develop in the future. We also face competition from existing conventional wide format and super wide format printing methods, including hand painting, screen printing and offset printing. Our competitors could develop new products, with existing or new technology, that could be more competitive in our market than our printers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with any such products. We face strong competition in the market for ink products. If we do not compete successfully, our revenues will decline. We compete with independent manufacturers in the market for ink products. The ink manufacturing industry is highly competitive. We are currently the exclusive or principal manufacturer and supplier of ink for our UV ink based printers and for a majority of our other printers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our position as the exclusive or even principal ink manufacturer and/or supplier for these printers. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or achieve significant revenues in the ink business. If we fail to meet our customers’ performance expectations, our reputation may be harmed, causing us to lose current and prospective customers. Our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers depends to a large extent on our relationships with our customers and our ability to maintain a reputation for high quality products, professional services and integrity. As a result, if a customer is not satisfied with our products or services, our reputation may be damaged, adversely affecting the relationship with this and other existing customers and our ability to attract new customers. Our products could contain defects, which would reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products and we participate in an industry that is subject to significant product liability and other litigation. Despite testing by us and our customers, undetected errors or defects may be found in existing or new products. The introduction of products with reliability, quality or compatibility problems could result in reduced revenues, additional costs, increased product returns and difficulty or delays in collecting accounts receivable. The risk is higher with products still in the development stage, where full testing or certification is not yet completed. This could result in, among other things, a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. We could be subject to material claims by customers that are not covered by our insurance. Many of these claims also involve significant defense or settlement costs. We depend on our executive officers and other key employees and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business and results of operations. During the previous two years, our senior management has undergone significant changes, including the replacement of our principal executive officers, the regional managing directors of our four main divisions and most of our senior management team. In addition, we have experienced a high turnover of other employees during 2006 and the beginning of 2007. We believe that our success depends to a large extent upon the contributions of key personnel, and especially our senior management. Our business could seriously suffer if David Reis or Yosef Zylberberg, our principal executive officers, or other key personnel, were to leave our company. In addition, we do not have, and do not plan to apply for, “key-man” life insurance for any of our key employees. The high turnover in other employees and the possible loss of knowledge and expertise as a result could also materially adversely affect our results of operations and our growth prospects. Our future success will also depend in part on our continuing ability to attract highly qualified employees. We cannot assure our continued success in attracting or retaining highly qualified personnel. 10 If we are unsuccessful in protecting our proprietary technology through trade secrets, licenses and patents, our ability to compete effectively may be impaired. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, licenses, patents and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and our intellectual property. We cannot provide any assurance that our existing patents or any future patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We cannot be sure that we will receive further patent protection in Israel, the United States, or elsewhere, for existing or new products or applications. Even if we do secure further patent protection, we cannot provide any assurance it will be effective. Also, although we take precautionary measures to protect our trade secrets, we cannot guarantee that others will not acquire equivalent trade secrets or steal or replicate our exclusive technology. For example, in some countries, meaningful patent protection is not available. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future, and the cost of responding to such assertions, regardless of their validity, could be significant. In addition, such claims could be found to be valid and result in large judgments against us. Even if such claims are not valid, the cost to protect our patent rights and the harm caused to our operations during the litigation of such claims could be substantial. We may be subject to liabilities under environmental laws due to our use of hazardous materials such as methyl ethyl-ketone solvent. We mix the solvent ink used in some of our printers with a methyl ethyl-ketone solvent. Methyl ethyl-ketone solvent is a hazardous substance and is subject to various government regulations relating to its transfer, handling, packaging, use and disposal. We store the ink at warehouses in Europe, the United States, South East Asia and Israel, and a shipping company ships it in accordance with our instructions. We face potential responsibility for problems that may arise when we ship the ink to customers. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, if we fail to comply with these laws or an accident involving our ink waste or methyl ethyl-ketone solvent occurs, our business and financial results could be harmed. In addition, in recent years the operations of all companies have become subject to increasingly stringent legislation and regulation related to occupational safety and health and environmental protection. Such legislation and regulations are complex and constantly changing, and we cannot assure you that future changes in laws or regulations would not require us to install additional controls for certain of our ink products, to undertake changes in our manufacturing processes or to utilize additional measures of care and compliance where such measures are not currently required. We may face adverse consequences as a result of the restatement of our financial statements. The amendment of our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2004, which was filed with the SEC on March 13, 2006, included a restatement of our financial statements for 2002, 2003 and 2004. As a result of the restatement, we may face certain risks and potential adverse consequences and costs associated with addressing any potential actions or inquiries; and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Each of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. 11 We benefit from certain tax benefits related to capital investment incentives. In the event these benefits are reduced, it will adversely affect our results of operations and our growth prospects. We benefit from certain Israeli tax legislation principally related to capital investment incentives. Our operations could be adversely affected if these tax benefits are reduced or eliminated and not replaced with equivalent benefits, or if our ability to meet the conditions to benefit from such tax benefits were significantly reduced. We cannot assure you that favorable tax legislation will continue in the future. In addition, to receive such tax benefits, we must comply with a number of conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions, the tax benefits that we receive could be partially or fully canceled and we would be forced to refund the amount of the canceled benefits received, in whole or in part, adjusted for inflation and interest. Political instability in Israel may disrupt important operations and our business. Our headquarters and research facilities, operations and some of our subcontractors and suppliers are located in the State of Israel. Although most of our sales are currently made to customers outside of Israel, we are nonetheless directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Our business could be harmed by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic condition of Israel. The prospect of peace in the Middle East is uncertain and has deteriorated due to the continued violent conflicts between Israelis and Palestinians. In addition, in July and August 2006, significant fighting took place between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon, which involved numerous missile strikes and disrupted day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Furthermore, over the last seven years and more significantly in April, May and June 2007, Palestinian militants have been firing rockets from the Gaza strip to the neighboring southern part of Israel, including to areas in Ashkelon, where our ink manufacturing plant is located. While the work in our plant has not been impacted so far, we cannot predict the full impact of the continuation or escalation of the conflict in the Gaza Strip and southern Israel on our results of operations and business. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israeli companies. We could be adversely affected by further setbacks to the peace process or by restrictive laws or policies directed toward Israel or Israeli businesses. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected by acts of terrorism or if major hostilities should occur in the Middle East or trade between Israel and its present trading partners should be curtailed, including as a result of acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere. In addition, all nonexempt male adult citizens of Israel, including some of our officers and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. While we have operated effectively under these requirements and circumstances since our formation, we cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel may be slowed and our business may be harmed. We have significant operations in countries that may be adversely affected by acts of terrorism, political or economical instability or major hostilities. We supply our products to various countries. Over 60% of our sales are in North America and Western Europe. However, we expect to derive an increasing portion of our sales and future growth from other regions such as Latin America and Central and Eastern Europe, which may be more susceptible to political or economic instability. As we import our products into such countries, we face possible denial of access to our customers as a result of a closing of the borders of the countries in which we sell our products, due to economic, legislative, political and military conditions, including hostilities and acts of terror, in such countries. Our executive offices and a substantial percentage of our manufacturing capabilities are located in Israel. 12 You may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel and our headquarters are in Israel. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you may not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of such persons. You may not be able to enforce civil actions under U.S. securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. In addition, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations from period-to-period, which could cause us to miss expectations about these results and, consequently, could adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. The results of our operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of factors such as price reductions by us and our competitors, increased competition in the printing equipment and ink industry, the introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and standards, changes in interest rates and availability of bank or other financing to our customers, substitution of our ink products for third party ink by users of our products, delay, rescheduling or cancellation of orders, costs related to our entry into new geographic markets, changes in general economic conditions and changes in economic conditions specific to our industry. Furthermore, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of, among other factors, the timing of new product announcements and releases by our competitors and us. We do not typically have a material backlog of orders at the beginning of each quarter. We may not learn of shortfalls in sales until late in, or shortly after the end of, such fiscal period. As a result, our quarterly earnings may be subject to significant variations, which could cause us to miss expectations about our earnings and, consequently, could adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. Our business is subject to risks from international operations that could increase our expenses and require increased time and attention of our management. A significant portion of our business is conducted internationally. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk in less developed markets, difficulties in staffing management and other positions, difficulties in collecting accounts receivables, regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, business and government spending patterns, and natural disasters. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Currency fluctuations may decrease our earnings. Because we generate revenues and expenses in various currencies, including the U.S. dollar, the New Israeli Shekel and the Euro, our financial results are subject to the effects of fluctuations of currency exchange rates. We cannot predict, however, when exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could impact our business. Currency fluctuations could decrease our profitability. 13 Our stock price has decreased significantly and may continue to be volatile, which could adversely affect the market liquidity of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional funds. Our ordinary shares have experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our anticipated and actual financial results, the published expectations of analysts, and announcements by our competitors and us. The market price for our ordinary shares has followed a historical downward trend since 2000. On May 19, 2005, our ordinary shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market due to our failure to comply with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted on the over-the-counter market in the “Pink Sheets” under the symbol “NURMF.PK.” In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have negatively affected the market price of many technology and manufacturing companies in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares in the future. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted stock options, and negatively affect our ability to raise funds through both debt and equity, discourage potential customers and partners from doing business with us, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our business, operating results and share price could be materially adversely affected. Beginning with our annual report for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require us to include a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. Beginning with our annual report for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, the report must also contain a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on their assessment of such internal controls. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 are likely to result in significant costs, the commitment of time and operational resources and the diversion of management’s attention. We expect to expend significant resources and management time documenting and testing our internal controls systems and procedures. This process may be complicated by the complexity of our international operations and various foreign subsidiaries. If we or our independent auditors are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected, customer perception of our business may suffer and we may face increased difficulty raising capital, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are controlled by a small number of shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree. In October 2005, a group of investors led by Fortissimo Capital Fund GP, LP (“Fortissimo”), invested $12 million in our company. Consequently, these shareholders are currently the beneficial owners of 61.2% of our ordinary shares and acting together, could exercise significant influence over our business, including with respect to the election of our directors and the approval of change in control transactions. This concentration of control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. 14 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of NUR, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of NUR, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Additional tax liabilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes both in Israel and various foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses. Additionally, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. From time to time, we are subject to income tax audits. While we believe we comply with applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed additional taxes, there could be a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. 