Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in shares of our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect subsequent events or circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events. Also refer to the note regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Our future operating revenues could be impacted by lower demand for our digital products and installation services. The theatre exhibition industry is currently in the midst of a significant transformation from film to digital equipment. Theatre exhibition companies are retrofitting their existing complexes by removing the film equipment and replacing it with digital equipment. While we expect the conversion to digital cinema to continue for a period of time, there is no assurance that once the first conversion cycle is over, there will be additional replacements of existing digital systems. If we are unable to expand our revenues streams with other products and services, our future growth would be significantly curtailed. 8 Table of Contents In addition, growth in the number of new movie screens may be adversely affected by the economy or other factors such as the global credit situation as the industry is very capital intensive. A lack of movie screen growth would lead to less demand for our products and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial results depend largely on the health of the theatre exhibition industry. In 2011, approximately 98% of our revenues resulted from sales to the theatre exhibition industry. The current transformation from analog to digital requires significant investment and there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to obtain a sufficient amount of this capital to continue the transformation. Without access to this capital, our theatre customers would be unable to purchase our products which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, while the health of the theatre exhibition industry has improved significantly over the past few years, there are still risks in the industry which result in continued exposure to Ballantyne. Interruptions of, or higher prices of components from our suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. Our revenues are substantially dependent on the distribution of products supplied by various key suppliers. We believe we have good supplier relationships and that we are generally able to obtain adequate pricing and other terms from our suppliers. However, if we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with them or if our suppliers experience significant financial problems, we could experience difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services. Some suppliers could also decide to reduce inventories or raise prices to increase cash flow. The loss of any one or more of our suppliers could have an adverse effect on our business unless alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured. If the current digital technology changes to a format not supported by the DLP cinema technology from Texas Instruments, we could lose our ability to participate fully in the digital cinema market place. We cannot provide assurance that there will be a continued demand for the DLP-based digital cinema products we distribute. There can be no assurance that other technologies developed, or being developed, by competing companies will not gain traction in the exhibition industry which could affect our ability to fully participate in the digital cinema market place. If we were forced to participate in digital cinema in ways other than being a distributor and service provider, we may have to leverage the Company. There is no assurance that we would be able to access sufficient capital. Growth through acquisition is a part of our business plan and we may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions. Our strategy is to pursue acquisitions that would fit in our business plans. We expect to make acquisitions in the future. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to locate appropriate acquisition candidates, that any identified candidates will be acquired or that acquired operations will be effectively integrated or prove profitable. The markets for our products are highly competitive. The domestic and international markets for our product lines are highly competitive, evolving and subject to rapid technological and other changes. We expect the intensity of competition in each of these areas to increase in the future. Certain of the competitors for our digital equipment have significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors are manufacturing their own digital equipment, whereas, we employ a distribution business model through our distribution 9 Table of Contents agreements with NEC, BARCO and certain other suppliers. As a result, we may suffer from pricing pressures that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we lose market share due to these issues, we may be unable to lower our cost structure quickly enough to offset the lost revenue. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business and results of operations will be seriously harmed. Our business is subject to the economic and political risks of selling products in foreign countries. Sales outside the United States (mainly theatre sales) continue to be significant, accounting for approximately 22% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2011, which include $26.0 million of sales in China. This compared to 44% in 2010 and $34.9 million of sales in China. We are seeking to expand our share of foreign sales, which we expect will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Foreign sales are subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, fluctuating exchange rates with respect to sales not denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates. A significant amount of our foreign sales are denominated in foreign currencies and amounted to $33.8 million in 2011. To the extent that orders are denominated in foreign currencies, our reported sales and earnings are more subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. In addition, there can be no assurance that our remaining international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. For those sales which are denominated in U.S. dollars, a weakening in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse impact on us by increasing the effective price of our products in international markets. Certain areas of the world are also more cost conscious than the U.S. market and there are instances where our products are priced higher than local manufacturers. We are also exposed to foreign currency fluctuations between the Canadian and U.S. dollar due to our screen manufacturing facility in Canada where a majority of their sales are denominated in the U.S. dollar while their expenses are denominated in Canadian currency. We cannot assure that these factors will not adversely affect our foreign activities in the future. The risk of non-compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our international operations could have a significant impact on our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. Our global operations subject us to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and multiple foreign laws, regulations and policies, which could result in conflicting legal requirements. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and increase our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include import and export control, environmental, health and safety regulations, data privacy requirements, international labor laws and work councils and anti-corruption and bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.N. Convention Against Bribery and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. We are subject to the risk that we, our employees, our affiliated entities, contractors, agents or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of any of these laws, particularly as we expand our operations through organic growth and acquisitions. An actual or alleged violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties, and debarment from government contracts, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, competitive or reputational harm, litigation or regulatory action and other consequences that might adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. Current negative economic conditions could adversely affect our results. The current issues in the global credit markets and weak worldwide economies may continue to negatively impact the theatre and lighting markets we serve. This environment could serve to reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. These economic conditions may 10 Table of Contents also impact the financial condition of one or more of our key suppliers, including NEC and BARCO, which could affect our ability to secure product to meet our customers' demand. We are substantially dependent upon significant customers who could cease purchasing our products at any time. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 53% of our 2011 consolidated net revenues and were from the theatre segment. Trade accounts receivable from these customers represented approximately 48% of net consolidated receivables at December 31, 2011. Sales to CDF2 Holdings, LLC represented approximately 19% of total sales. Additionally, receivables from CDF2 Holdings, LLC. and NEC Financial Services, LLC represented approximately 12% and 15% of net consolidated receivables at December 31, 2011, respectively. While the Company believes its relationships with such customers are stable, most arrangements are made by purchase order and are terminable at will by either party. A significant decrease or interruption in business from the Company's significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company could also be adversely affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency rates and weak economic and political conditions in each of the countries in which the Company sells its products. Security and privacy breaches could harm our business if we are affected by a cyber-attack. A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology (IT) security systems causing an IT security breach, may lead to a material disruption of our IT business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in adverse business impact. The risks may include such items as: •Future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property •Operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities •Negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets that are subject to annual valuation testing. At December 31, 2011, we have recorded net deferred tax assets of $3.2 million. In assessing the ability to realize the deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. If it would be determined that some or all of these assets would not be realized, valuation reserves would be required which would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. If we fail to retain key members of management, our business may be materially harmed. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the efforts and abilities of our current management team. Many of these individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Ballantyne and its operations. If certain of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Our stock price is vulnerable to significant fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, general conditions in the industries in which we operate and other factors. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and 11 Table of Contents volume fluctuations affecting the market price for the stock of many companies generally, which fluctuations often are unrelated to operating performance. Our 44.4% ownership in our joint venture with RealD is subject to credit and concentration risk. Digital Link II, LLC, ("Digital Link II") was formed between Ballantyne and RealD for the purposes of commercializing certain 3D technology and to fund the deployment of digital projection systems to third party exhibitors. As of December 31, 2011, Digital Link II has deployed approximately $3.7 million of such projection equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $1.2 million. Such equipment is subject to system use agreements with certain exhibitors whereby the exhibitors must purchase the equipment upon the occurrence of certain triggering events. However, if any of these exhibitors would file for bankruptcy protection or be unable to fulfill their commitments in other ways, Digital Link II would be forced to remove the equipment and attempt to resell such equipment. While Digital Link II has received certain down payments against this equipment, it is unclear at this time what the financial impact would be to the joint venture. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 