1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in shares of our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect subsequent events or circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events. Also refer to the note regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K. 11 Table of Contents NEC is our sole supplier of the digital projectors we distribute to the theatre industry. Through master reseller agreements with NEC, we distribute their Starus DLP Cinema projectors to North and South America, Hong Kong, China and certain other areas of Asia. These agreements are non-exclusive distributorship agreements that are not perpetual and could be terminated with 90 days advance notice. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with NEC, the results would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results until we could find an alternative source of digital equipment to distribute. Further, there can be no assurance that an alternative source of digital equipment could be found on favorable terms. We are also dependent on NEC to supply us digital products in a timely manner and if there were delays in receiving product, we could lose market share which would negatively affect our operations. In addition, the current relationship with NEC is a non-exclusive distributorship agreement and as such the gross margin will be lower than the margin we currently experience on our film projectors. It is unclear at this time if this lower margin can be offset by the expected increased price point and sales volume digital cinema is expected to add when the rollout occurs. Interruptions of, or higher prices of components from NEC and other vendors may affect our results of operations and financial performance. We are dependent on our vendors and suppliers for certain products in addition to the digital products we purchase from NEC. We believe we have good vendor relationships and that we are generally able to obtain adequate pricing and other terms from vendors and suppliers. However, if we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with our vendors and suppliers or if our vendors and suppliers experience significant financial problems, we could experience difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services. Some vendors could also decide to reduce inventories or increase prices to increase cash flow given current economic conditions. We utilize a single contract manufacturer for each of our intermittent movement components, lenses and xenon lamps on the film side and as discussed earlier, NEC is currently the sole supplier for the digital projector we distribute to the theatre industries. The loss of any one or more of the contract manufacturers could have a an adverse effect on the Company unless alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured. We are not dependent upon any one contract manufacturer or supplier for the balance of our raw materials and components. The industry transition to digital cinema is currently in the initial stages and during this time, there could be pricing pressures placed upon us as we market the NEC line of digital equipment. While our partnership with NEC to-date has been to strategically price the NEC projectors to the market-place, there are no assurances that if future pricing pressures arise that NEC will drop their prices to allow us to remain competitive. In addition, volatility in the price for certain raw materials and components such as steel, fuel and lenses could adversely affect our financial results. If the current digital technology changes to a format not supported by the DLP cinema technology from Texas Instruments, we could lose our ability to participate fully in the digital cinema market place. We cannot assure you that there will be a continued demand for the digital cinema products we distribute. NEC, along with two other licensed OEM's of the Texas Instruments' DLP Cinema technology currently have the majority of the market share for digital projection equipment. However, there are also other companies such as SONY using different digital technologies in the marketplace. There can be no assurance that these other technologies will not gain traction in the exhibition industry which could affect our ability to fully participate in the digital cinema market place. If we were forced to participate in digital cinema in other ways than being a distributor and service provider, we may have to leverage the Company. There is no assurance that we would be able to access sufficient capital given the recent tightening of the global credit market. 12 Table of Contents The markets for our products are highly competitive. The domestic and international markets for our product lines are highly competitive, evolving and subject to rapid technological and other changes. We expect the intensity of competition in each of these areas to increase in the future. Our competitors for our equipment have significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors are manufacturing their own equipment, whereas, we employ a distribution business model. As a result, we may suffer from pricing pressures that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we lose market share due to these issues, we may be unable to lower our cost structure quickly enough to offset the lost revenue. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business and results of operations will be seriously harmed. Current negative economic conditions could adversely affect our results. The current issues in the global credit markets and weakening economies may negatively impact the Theatre and Lighting markets we serve. This environment could serve to reduce demand for our products and adversely affecting our operating results. These economic conditions may also impact the financial condition of one or more of our key suppliers, including NEC, which could affect our ability to secure product to meet our customers' demand. Our financial results and growth depend largely on the health of the theatre exhibition industry. In 2008, approximately 92% of our revenues resulted from sales to the theatre exhibition industry. From fiscal years 2000 to 2002, this industry experienced an unprecedented three-year decline. Several exhibition companies filed for federal bankruptcy protection. This resulted in our revenues declining from $83.4 million in fiscal 1999 to $33.8 million in fiscal 2002. While the health of the theatre exhibition industry has improved significantly, there are still risks in the industry which result in continued exposure to Ballantyne. Growth in the number of new motion picture screens may be adversely affected by the economy or other factors such as the global credit situation as the industry is very capital intensive. A lack of motion picture screen growth would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The industry is also in the initial stages of a transformation from film to digital equipment. Theatre exhibition companies plan to retrofit their existing complexes by taking out the film equipment and replacing it with digital. This transformation is expected to take large amounts of capital. Due to weakening global credit markets, this process has been delayed to a significant degree. If the credit markets remain weak, there is no assurance that this process will take place near-term. There is significant uncertainty as to how this delay would affect our Company's operations. We are substantially dependent upon significant customers who could cease purchasing our products at any time. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 46% of 2008 consolidated net revenues. While we believe our relationships with such customers are stable, most arrangements are made by purchase order and are terminable at will by either party. A significant decrease or interruption in business from these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified technicians could hamper our business model pertaining to our service business. We believe that there will be increased demand for service due to the upcoming digital conversion as theatre operators may not have the necessary technical expertise to maintain the more technical nature of digital projectors and accessories. Once the rollout of digital cinema begins, competition for these qualified technicians will increase and we cannot predict whether we will experience future 13 Table of Contents technician shortages. If such a shortage were to occur, we could be unable to properly provide the necessary services to our customers and subsequently lose market share. In addition if technician salary increases were necessary to attract and retain them, our results of operations would be negatively impacted to the extent we could not pass those additional costs to our customers. In addition, because the large scale rollout of digital cinema has not occurred, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully operate the service business in a profitable manner as we have limited experience with the volume of work that will be necessary. Our efforts to take care of our customers' needs could lead to increased operating and capital costs we have not planned on. Certain of our investments are experiencing liquidity issues. We ended fiscal year 2008 with total cash, cash equivalents and long-term investments of $20.3 million including $8.9 million (net of a $1.1 million unrealized loss) of investments in certain auction-rate securities. During 2008, the market for our investments in auction-rate securities began experiencing a liquidity issue when the securities came up for auction due to an imbalance of buyers of sellers for the securities. Since that time, we have liquidated, at par, $3.0 million of our auction-rate securities of which $50,000 were sold through the normal auction process with the remaining amounts being redeemed by the fund itself. We have also recorded an unrealized loss of approximately $1.1 million in other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2008 pertaining to these securities. However, if market conditions would deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income (loss) or recognize impairment losses in our consolidated statements of operations. Our business is subject to the economic and political risks of selling products in foreign countries. Sales outside the United States (mainly theatre sales) continue to be significant, accounting for 33% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2008. We are seeking to expand our share of foreign sales, which we expect will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Foreign sales are subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, fluctuating exchange rates with respect to sales not denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates. A majority of our foreign sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars, exclusive of sales resulting from our division in Hong Kong ($4.8 million of non-U.S. denominated sales in fiscal 2008), and certain sales from our Screen Manufacturing subsidiary in Canada ($2.2 million of non-U.S. denominated sales in 2008). A weakening in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse impact on us by increasing the effective price of our products in international markets. In addition, there can be no assurance that our international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. To the extent that orders are denominated in foreign currencies, our reported sales and earnings are more directly subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. Certain areas of the world are also more cost conscious than the U.S. market and there are instances where our products are priced higher than local manufacturers. We cannot assure that these factors will not adversely affect our foreign sales in the future. We are also exposed to foreign currency fluctuations between the Canadian and U.S. dollar due to the purchase of MDI during 2007 as a majority of their sales are denominated in the U.S. dollar while their expenses are denominated in Canadian currency. Pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Ballantyne is currently a defendant in an asbestos case entitled Larry C. Stehman and Leila Stehman v. Asbestos Corporation, Limited and Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. individually and as successor in interest to Strong International, Strong Electric Corporation and Century Projector Corporation, et al, filed 14 Table of Contents December 8, 2006 in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Francisco. While we believe that we have strong defenses and intend to defend the suit vigorously, it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of this case, or the amount of damages, if any, that a jury may award. The plaintiffs have made no monetary demand upon Ballantyne. It is possible that an adverse resolution of this case could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. The case is scheduled for trial to commence on May 26, 2009. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it, require us to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K an assessment by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the applicable policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent auditors disagree with our conclusion), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. If we fail to retain key members of management, our business may be materially harmed. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the efforts and abilities of our current management team. Many of these individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Ballantyne and its operations. If certain of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Growth through acquisition is a part of our business plan and we may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions. As discussed in further detail in the "Business Strategy" portion of Item 1, our strategy is to pursue complementary strategic acquisitions in the theatre and in other markets that would fit in our business plans. We expect to make acquisitions in the future. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to locate appropriate acquisition candidates, that any identified candidates will be acquired or that acquired operations will be effectively integrated or prove profitable. Additionally, our credit facility with First National Bank of Omaha currently prohibits Ballantyne from making acquisitions over $7 million without the bank's consent. Accounting for acquisitions under generally accepted accounting principles could adversely affect our reported financial results. Acquisitions could require us to record substantial amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed our annual impairment test of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. The analyses took into account various factors described below in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" 15 Table of Contents and resulted in a goodwill impairment charge to the entire carrying value of approximately $2.3 million. In the future, however, our acquisitions could require us to record additional goodwill. Any future impairment of this goodwill or indefinite lived intangibles could adversely affect our reported financial results. Our stock price is vulnerable to significant fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, general conditions in the industries in which we operate and other factors. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume fluctuations affecting the market price for the stock of many companies generally, which fluctuations often are unrelated to operating performance. Certain anti-takeover provisions in Ballantyne's governing documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Ballantyne. The Board of Directors has adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan. Under the terms of the Rights Plan, which expires June 9, 2010, we declared a distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. The rights become exercisable only if a person or group (other than certain exempt persons), acquires 15% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of our common stock. Under certain circumstances, the Rights Plan allows stockholders, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase our common stock at a price that is one-half the market price. Our Certificate of Incorporation also provides for, among other things, the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The Board of Directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to cause Ballantyne to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers and the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights and restrictions of the preferred stock. Accordingly, we may issue a series of preferred stock in the future that will have preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up or have voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power and ownership percentages of the holders of common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation also provides for the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of all outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class, to change certain provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws. Our Bylaws contain certain advance notice requirements relating to stockholder proposals and stockholder nomination of directors. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult or discouraging transactions that could give stockholders of Ballantyne the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. Shares eligible for future sale could have a possible adverse effect on the market price. Future sales of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or our ability to raise additional capital through sales of its equity securities. As of December 31, 2008, we had: i) 14,028,528 shares owned by stockholders and ii) 1,258,044 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under stock plans, of which 278,125 shares are issuable pursuant to currently outstanding options, and 104,104 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance pursuant to Ballantyne's employee stock purchase plan. Of the shares outstanding, subject to outstanding options and reserved for issuance under the employee stock purchase plan, 14,300,653 shares are immediately eligible for resale in the public market without restriction. We are unable to predict the effect that the sales of these shares may have on the prevailing market price of the common stock. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any written comments from SEC Staff regarding our periodic or current reports that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2008 fiscal year and that remained unresolved. 