1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in shares of our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. 11 We may be unsuccessful in adapting to new or advancing technologies, such as digital cinema. The transition to digital cinema began to show measurable progress in 2007 after several years of research and development. We believe we are in a position to participate in the digital cinema marketplace either through our relationship with NEC or through other relationships with other digital cinema providers. However, we cannot assure that we will successfully or competitively advance this technology as might be required. In addition, the current relationship with NEC is a non-exclusive distributorship agreement and as such the gross margin will be lower than the margin we currently experience on our analog projectors. It is unclear at this time if this lower margin can be offset by the expected increased price point and sales volume digital cinema is expected to add when the rollout occurs. Our agreement with NEC is not perpetual and could be terminated with 90 day advance written notice. While we currently have no debt, we may have to leverage the Company to fully participate in digital cinema. There is no assurance that we will be able to access sufficient capital given the recent tightening of the global credit market. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with NEC, or otherwise take advantage of future digital cinema opportunities or respond to the new competitive pressures, the result could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our financial results and growth depend largely on the health of the theatre exhibition industry. Approximately 91% of our revenues resulted from sales to the theatre exhibition industry. From fiscal years 2000 to 2002, this industry experienced an unprecedented three-year decline. Several exhibition companies filed for federal bankruptcy protection. This resulted in our revenues declining from $83.4 million in fiscal 1999 to $33.8 million in fiscal 2002. While the health of the theatre exhibition industry has improved significantly, there are still risks in the industry which result in continued exposure to Ballantyne. Growth in the number of new motion picture screens may be adversely affected by the economy or other factors. These factors may also have an adverse effect on our customer base. A lack of motion picture screen growth would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are substantially dependent upon significant customers who could cease purchasing our products at any time. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 43% of 2007 consolidated net revenues. While we believe our relationships with such customers are stable, most arrangements are made by purchase order and are terminable at will by either party. A significant decrease or interruption in business from these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the economic and political risks of selling products in foreign countries. Sales outside the United States (mainly theatre sales) continue to be significant, accounting for 28% and 29% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. We are seeking to expand our share of foreign sales, which we expect will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Foreign sales are subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, fluctuating exchange rates with respect to sales not denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates. Historically, the majority of our foreign sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars. A weakening in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse impact on us by increasing the effective price of our products in international markets. In addition, there can be no assurance that our international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. To the extent that orders are denominated in foreign currencies, our reported sales and earnings are more directly subject to foreign 12 exchange fluctuations. Certain areas of the world are also more cost conscious than the U.S. market and there are instances where our products are priced higher than local manufacturers. We cannot assure that these factors will not adversely affect our foreign sales in the future. We are also exposed to foreign currency fluctuations between the Canadian and U.S. dollar due to the purchase of MDI as a majority of their sales are denominated in the U.S. dollar while their expenses are denominated in Canadian currency. The markets for our products are highly competitive and if we fail to invest in product development and productivity improvements, our business could be materially adversely impacted. The domestic and international markets for our product lines are highly competitive. Certain of our competitors for our equipment have significantly greater resources. In the theatre segment, we are experiencing new competition in the film motion picture industry as well as from the development of new technology for alternative means of motion picture presentation in the form of digital cinema. We cannot assure that our equipment (whether film or digital) will not become obsolete as technology advances. If we lose market share due to these issues, we may be unable to lower our cost structure quickly enough to offset the lost revenue. To counter these risks, we have initiated a cost reduction program, continue to streamline our manufacturing processes and have a strategy to respond to the digital marketplace. However, we cannot assure that this strategy will succeed or that it will be able to obtain adequate financing to take advantage of potential opportunities. If we fail to retain key members of management, our business may be materially harmed. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the efforts and abilities of our current management team. Many of these individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Ballantyne and its operations. If certain of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Growth through acquisition is a part of our business plan and we may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions. As discussed in further detail in the "Business Strategy" portion of Item 1, our strategy is to pursue complementary strategic acquisitions in the theatre and in other markets that would fit in our business plans. We expect to make acquisitions in the future. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to locate appropriate acquisition candidates, that any identified candidates will be acquired or that acquired operations will be effectively integrated or prove profitable. Additionally, our credit facility with First National Bank of Omaha currently prohibits us from making acquisitions over $7 million without the bank's consent. Interruptions of, or higher prices of components from, certain suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. NEC is our sole supplier for the Digital equipment we distribute to the theatre industry. The industry transition to digital cinema is currently in the initial stages and during this time, there could be pricing pressures placed upon us as we market the NEC line of digital equipment. While our partnership with NEC to-date has been to strategically price the NEC projectors to the market-place, there are no assurances that if future pricing pressures would arise that NEC will drop their prices to allow us to remain competitive. We are also dependent on NEC to supply us digital products in a timely manner and while we have not experienced difficulty in obtaining these products in the past, there is no assurance that shortages will not arise in the future. 13 We utilize a single contract manufacturer for each of our intermittent movement components, lenses and xenon lamps on the film side. The loss of any one or more of the contract manufacturers could have a short-term adverse effect on the Company until alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured. We are not dependent upon any one contract manufacturer or supplier for the balance of our raw materials and components. We believe that there are adequate alternative sources of such raw materials and components of sufficient quantity and quality, but cannot assure that this will continue in the future. In addition, volatility in the price for certain raw materials and components such as steel, fuel and lenses could adversely affect our financial results. In particular, the strengthening of the Euro has resulted in increased costs for lens purchases from our German supplier. Based on forecasted purchases during 2008, an average 10% devaluation of the dollar compared to the Euro would cost us approximately $0.1 million. Our stock price is vulnerable to significant fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, general conditions in the industries in which we operate and other factors. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume fluctuations affecting the market price for the stock of many companies in general, with fluctuations often being unrelated to operating performance. Pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Ballantyne is currently a defendant in an asbestos case entitled Larry C. Stehman and Leila Stehman v. Asbestos Corporation, Limited and Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. individually and as successor in interest to Strong International, Strong Electric Corporation and Century Projector Corporation, et al, filed December 8, 2006 in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Francisco. We believe that we have strong defenses and intend to defend the suit vigorously. It is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of this case, or the amount of damages, if any, that a jury may award. The plaintiffs have made no monetary demand upon Ballantyne. This case is scheduled for trial to commence in August 2008. It is possible that an adverse resolution of this case could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are a party from time to time to various other legal actions which are ordinary routine litigation matters incidental to the Company's business, such as products liability. Certain anti-takeover provisions in Ballantyne's governing documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Ballantyne. The Board of Directors has adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan. Under the terms of the Rights Plan, which expires June 9, 2010, we declared a distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. The rights become exercisable only if a person or group (other than certain exempt persons), acquires 15% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of our common stock. Under certain circumstances, the Rights Plan allows stockholders, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase our common stock at a price that is one-half the market price. Our Certificate of Incorporation also provides for, among other things, the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The Board of Directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to cause Ballantyne to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers and the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights and restrictions of the preferred stock. Accordingly, we may issue a series of preferred stock in the future 14 that will have preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up or have voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power and ownership percentages of the holders of common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation also provides for the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of all outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class, to change certain provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws. Our Bylaws contain certain advance notice requirements relating to stockholder proposals and stockholder nomination of directors. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult or discouraging transactions that could give stockholders of Ballantyne the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. Shares eligible for future sale could have a possible adverse effect on the market price. Future sales of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or our ability to raise additional capital through sales of its equity securities. As of December 31, 2007, we had: i) 13,858,438 shares owned by stockholders and ii) 1,923,186 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under stock plans. Of the shares outstanding, subject to outstanding options and reserved for issuance under the employee stock purchase plan, 428,000 shares are immediately eligible for resale in the public market without restriction. We are unable to predict the effect that the sales of these shares may have on the prevailing market price of the common stock. Subsequent to year-end certain of our short-term investments are experiencing liquidity issues. We ended fiscal year 2007 with total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $17.2 million including $13.0 million of investments in certain auction rate securities ("ARS"). Subsequent to year-end, the market for our investments in auction-rate securities began experiencing a liquidity issue when the securities came up for auction due to an imbalance of buyers of sellers for the securities. We cannot predict how long the current imbalance in the auction market will continue. As a result, for a period of time, we may be unable to liquidate our auction rate securities held. However, all the securities held continue to be AAA rated and fully collateralized by the fund itself at a minimum 200% net asset to fund ratio. Therefore, we have no reason to believe that any of the issuers are presently at risk or that the credit quality of the assets backing these investments are impacted by the reduced liquidity of these investments. We are currently evaluating the market for these securities to determine if impairment of the carrying value of the securities has occurred due to the loss of liquidity. Any decline in the fair value of the securities, at this time, as a result of a potential liquidity discount is considered temporary. In the future, if indicators exist that lead to an other than temporary impairment, we would recognize an impairment loss in the consolidated statement of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 