Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in shares of our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect subsequent events or circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events. Also refer to the note regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K. NEC is the sole supplier of the digital projectors we distribute to the theatre industry. Through distribution agreements with NEC, we distribute their DLP Cinema projectors to North and South America, the Caribbean, Hong Kong, China and certain other areas of Asia. These agreements are non-exclusive distributorship agreements, some of which could be terminated with 90 days advance notice. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with NEC, the results would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results until we could find an alternative source of digital equipment to distribute. Further, there can be no assurance that an alternative source of digital equipment could be found on favorable terms. We are also dependent on NEC to supply us digital products in a timely manner and if there were delays in receiving product, we could lose market share which would negatively affect our operations. In addition, the current relationship with NEC is a non-exclusive distributorship agreement and as such the gross margin is and will be lower than the margin we currently experience on our film projectors. We have experienced lower margins that have been partially offset by increased price points and sales volume; however, we cannot provide assurance that this trend will continue in the future. Interruptions of, or higher prices of components from NEC and other vendors may affect our results of operations and financial performance. We are dependent on our vendors and suppliers for certain products in addition to the digital products we purchase from NEC. We believe we have good vendor relationships and that we are generally able to obtain adequate pricing and other terms from vendors and suppliers. However, if we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with our vendors and suppliers or if our vendors and suppliers experience significant financial problems, we could experience difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services. Some vendors could also decide to reduce inventories or increase prices to increase cash flow given current economic conditions. We utilize a single contract manufacturer for each of our intermittent movement components, lenses and xenon lamps on the film side and as already discussed, NEC is currently the sole supplier for the digital projectors we distribute to the theatre industries. The loss of any one or more of the contract manufacturers could have an adverse effect on our business unless alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured. We are not dependent upon any one contract manufacturer or supplier for the balance of our raw materials and components. The industry transition to digital cinema is currently underway and during this time, there could be pricing pressures placed upon us as we market the NEC line of digital equipment. While our partnership with NEC to-date has been to strategically price the NEC projectors to the market-place, there is no assurance that if future pricing pressures arise NEC will drop their prices to allow us to remain competitive. In addition, volatility in the price for certain raw materials and components such as steel and fuel could adversely affect our financial results. 13 Table of Contents Our gross margins are subject to fluctuation We expect our gross margin as a percentage of revenues to decrease in the future primarily due to increased sales of digital projection equipment which carry lower margins compared to the film products we previously manufactured. However, the sales price on the digital projectors is higher than what we receive on film projectors which offsets gross margin dollars to a degree. Gross margins could also be impacted in the future by higher film manufacturing costs pertaining to lower demand for manufactured film products. We expect to purchase film inventory components in lower quantities resulting in some raw material price increases and to experience less manufacturing throughput in the Omaha plant to cover fixed overhead costs. As sales of film projectors continue to decline, our revenues become more reliant on these lower margin digital sales completed as a distributor. To-date, we have been able to offset this with cost reductions and growing our higher margin screen manufacturing business. However, if we are unable to further lower costs as our film manufacturing decreases or there is a significant drop in demand for our higher margin screen sales, our gross margins and profits will be adversely impacted. If the current digital technology changes to a format not supported by the DLP cinema technology from Texas Instruments, we could lose our ability to participate fully in the digital cinema market place. We cannot provide assurance that there will be a continued demand for the digital cinema products we distribute. There can be no assurance that other technologies developed, or being developed, by competing companies will not gain traction in the exhibition industry which could affect our ability to fully participate in the digital cinema market place. If we were forced to participate in digital cinema in ways other than being a distributor and service provider, we may have to leverage the Company. There is no assurance that we would be able to access sufficient capital given the tightening of the global credit markets. Our 44.4% ownership in our joint venture with RealD is subject to credit and concentration risk. Digital Link II, LLC, ("Digital Link II") was formed between Ballantyne and RealD for the purposes of commercializing certain 3D technology and to fund the deployment of digital projection systems to third party exhibitors. As of December 31, 2010, Digital Link II has deployed $9.4 million of such projection equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $1.7 million. Such equipment is subject to system use agreements with certain exhibitors whereby the exhibitors must purchase the equipment upon the occurrence of certain triggering events. However, if any of these exhibitors would file for bankruptcy protection or be unable to fulfill their commitments in other ways, Digital Link II would be forced to remove the equipment and attempt to resell such equipment. At this time, it is unclear what the financial impact would be to the joint venture, however, it would likely have a material adverse effect on Digital Link II and also our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Digital Link II has entered into notes payable arrangements to finance a portion of the deployments. Ballantyne and RealD have provided guarantees for such notes in the event that Digital Link II would be unable to fulfill the principal and interest obligations under such notes based on their respective ownership shares. As of December 31, 2010, we have outstanding guarantees of $1.2 million (excluding interest) for our 44.4% share. The markets for our products are highly competitive. The domestic and international markets for our product lines are highly competitive, evolving and subject to rapid technological and other changes. We expect the intensity of competition in each of these areas to increase in the future. Competitors for our digital equipment have significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors are manufacturing their own digital equipment, whereas, we employ a distribution business model through our distribution agreements with 14 Table of Contents NEC. As a result, we may suffer from pricing pressures that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we lose market share due to these issues, we may be unable to lower our cost structure quickly enough to offset the lost revenue. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business and results of operations will be seriously harmed. NEC, along with two other licensed OEM's of the Texas Instruments' DLP Cinema technology historically have held the majority of the market share for digital projection equipment. However, there are also other companies such as SONY using different digital technologies in the marketplace. During 2009, SONY made significant inroads into gaining market share when they announced agreements with Regal Cinemas, Inc. and AMC Entertainment, Inc. to display their 4K digital cinema projectors into these two large circuits. While we believe Texas Instruments is taking steps to respond to the SONY threat, there can be no assurances that they will be successful. Our business is subject to the economic and political risks of selling products in foreign countries. Sales outside the United States (mainly theatre sales) continue to be significant, accounting for 44% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2010. We are seeking to expand our share of foreign sales, which we expect will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Foreign sales are subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, fluctuating exchange rates with respect to sales not denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates. An increasing amount of our foreign sales are being denominated in foreign currencies. During 2010, such sales rose to $22.7 million compared to $18.5 million in 2009. To the extent that orders are denominated in foreign currencies, our reported sales and earnings are more subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. In addition, there can be no assurance that our remaining international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, for those sales which are denominated in U.S. sales, a weakening in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse impact on us by increasing the effective price of our products in international markets. Certain areas of the world are also more cost conscious than the U.S. market and there are instances where our products are priced higher than local manufacturers. We are also exposed to foreign currency fluctuations between the Canadian and U.S. dollar due to our screen manufacturing facility in Canada where a majority of their sales are denominated in the U.S. dollar while their expenses are denominated in Canadian currency. We cannot assure that these factors will not adversely affect our foreign activities in the future. The risk of non-compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our international operations could have a significant impact on our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. Our global operations subject us to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and multiple foreign laws, regulations and policies, which could result in conflicting legal requirements. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and increase our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include import and export control, environmental, health and safety regulations, data privacy requirements, international labor laws and work councils and anti-corruption and bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.N. Convention Against Bribery and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. We are subject to the risk that we, our employees, our affiliated entities, contractors, agents or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of any of these laws, particularly as we expand our operations through organic growth and acquisitions. An actual or alleged violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties, and debarment from government contracts, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, competitive or reputational harm, litigation or regulatory action and other consequences that might adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. 15 Table of Contents Current negative economic conditions could adversely affect our results. The current issues in the global credit markets and weaker economies may continue to negatively impact the Theatre and Lighting markets we serve. This environment could serve to reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. These economic conditions may also impact the financial condition of one or more of our key suppliers, including NEC, which could affect our ability to secure product to meet our customers' demand. Our financial results and growth depend largely on the health of the theatre exhibition industry. In 2010, approximately 97% of our revenues resulted from sales to the theatre exhibition industry. From fiscal years 2000 to 2002, this industry experienced an unprecedented three-year decline. Several exhibition companies filed for federal bankruptcy protection. This resulted in our revenues declining from $83.4 million in fiscal 1999 to $33.8 million in fiscal 2002. While the health of the theatre exhibition industry has improved significantly, there are still risks in the industry which result in continued exposure to Ballantyne. In addition, growth in the number of new movie screens may be adversely affected by the economy or other factors such as the global credit situation as the industry is very capital intensive. A lack of movie screen growth would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The industry is in the midst of a significant transformation from film to digital equipment. Theatre exhibition companies are retrofitting their existing complexes by removing the film equipment and replacing it with digital equipment. This transformation requires significant investment and there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to obtain a sufficient amount of this capital to continue the transformation. Without access to this capital, our theatre customers would be unable to purchase our products which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, while we expect the conversion to digital cinema to continue for a period of time, there is no assurance that once the first conversion cycle is over, there will be additional replacements of existing digital systems. If we are unable to expand our revenues streams with other products and services, our future growth could be significantly curtailed. We are substantially dependent upon significant customers who could cease purchasing our products at any time. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 42% of 2010 consolidated net revenues. While we believe our relationships with such customers are stable, most arrangements are made by purchase order and are terminable at will by either party. A significant decrease or interruption in business from these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets that are subject to annual valuation testing. At December 31, 2010, we have recorded net deferred tax assets of $1.9 million. In assessing the ability to realize the deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. If management would determine that some or all of these assets would not be realized, valuation reserves would be required which would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified technicians could hamper our business model pertaining to our service business. We have experienced an increased demand for service due to the start of the digital conversion as theatre operators in many instances have not had the necessary technical expertise to maintain the more technical nature of digital projectors and accessories. The competition for qualified technicians is 16 Table of Contents increasing and we cannot predict whether we will experience future technician shortages. If such a shortage were to occur, we could be unable to properly provide the necessary services to our customers and subsequently lose market share. In addition, if technician salary increases were necessary to attract and retain them, our results of operations would be negatively impacted to the extent we could not pass those additional costs to our customers. We also cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully operate the service business in a profitable manner as we have limited experience with the volume of work that will be necessary. Our efforts to take care of our customers' needs could lead to increased and unplanned operating and capital costs. Growth through acquisition is a part of our business plan and we may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions. As discussed in further detail in the "Business Strategy" portion of Item 1, our strategy is to pursue acquisitions that would fit in our business plans. We expect to make acquisitions in the future. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to locate appropriate acquisition candidates, that any identified candidates will be acquired or that acquired operations will be effectively integrated or prove profitable. Additionally, our credit facility with Wells Fargo currently prohibits Ballantyne from making acquisitions over $7.5 million without the bank's consent. If we fail to retain key members of management, our business may be materially harmed. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the efforts and abilities of our current management team. Many of these individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Ballantyne and its operations. If certain of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Our Board of Directors recently elected a new Chief Executive Officer, President and Director On November 1, 2010, our Board elected Gary L. Cavey to the positions of Chief Executive Officer, President and Director. Mr. Cavey replaced John C. Wilmers who had served in those positions for 13 years and retired. Mr. Wilmers will remain with the Company to assist in transitioning Mr. Cavey into his new position as Mr. Cavey is new to the Company and our business. Mr. Wilmers will also focus on the Company's growing business opportunities in Asia. While the Board believes that Mr. Cavey is well qualified and will function well in the new positions, there is no guarantee that this will be the case. Mr. Cavey's failure to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our stock price is vulnerable to significant fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, general conditions in the industries in which we operate and other factors. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume fluctuations affecting the market price for the stock of many companies generally, which fluctuations often are unrelated to operating performance. Shares eligible for future sale could have a possible adverse effect on the market price. Future sales of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or our ability to raise additional capital through sales of our equity securities. As of December 31, 2010, we had: i) 14,313,158 shares owned by stockholders and ii) 956,349 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under stock plans, of which 222,250 shares are issuable 17 Table of Contents pursuant to currently outstanding options, and 74,691 shares of common stock issued but unvested pursuant to our restricted stock plans. Of the shares outstanding, subject to outstanding options and reserved for issuance under the employee stock purchase plan, 14,238,467 shares are immediately eligible for resale in the public market without restriction. We are unable to predict the effect that the sales of these shares may have on the prevailing market price of the common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 