Item 1A. Risk Factors Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements set forth in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those factors include the following: Risks Related to Our Business Because we are primarily a private passenger automobile insurance carrier, negative developments in the economic, regulatory or competitive conditions in this industry could cause us to incur additional costs and limit our flexibility in our underwriting process. This would reduce our profitability and the impact of these changes would have a disproportionate effect on our ability to operate profitably and successfully grow our business as compared to other more diversified insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 58.5%, 65.1% and 77.0%, respectively, of our direct written premiums were generated from private passenger automobile insurance policies. As a result of our focus on that line of business, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the private passenger automobile insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in 1998 the New Jersey legislature passed AICRA. AICRA attempted to control consumer costs by cutting automobile insurance rates by 15%. Although AICRA attempted to reduce costs to insurers by implementing strict measures to minimize fraud and abuse, our loss of premiums from the mandated rate reductions was not offset by such measures. Accordingly, the impact of this legislation reduced our profitability. In addition, any of these or similar developments in the private passenger automobile insurance industry would have a disproportionate effect on us, compared to more diversified insurers that also sell a larger proportion of other types of property and casualty insurance products. Because we write insurance only in New Jersey, negative developments in the regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and weather conditions in the New Jersey market could cause us to incur additional costs or limit our flexibility in our underwriting process and the impact of these changes would have a disproportionate effect on us compared to insurers that operate in multiple states. All of our direct written premiums in 2007 were generated in New Jersey. Our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to prevailing regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in New 28 Table of Contents Jersey. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business. For example, the ability of New Jersey insurers to obtain property and casualty reinsurance at reasonable prices was limited as a result of Hurricane Andrew. Accordingly, it became more costly for insurers to reduce risks through reinsurance. Because of the increased cost of reinsurance, insurers were limited in their ability to operate profitably. Adverse regulatory developments in New Jersey, such as AICRA, or others which could include fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the New Jersey insurance regulatory framework, could limit our ability to operate profitably by causing us to incur additional costs or limiting our flexibility in our underwriting process. In addition, these developments would have a disproportionate effect on us, compared to insurers which conduct operations in multiple states. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenues from replacement carrier transactions, and we may not be able to enter into those types of transactions in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we derived no revenue from replacement carrier transactions. Our strategy includes entering into additional replacement carrier transactions as opportunities arise. However, due to improvements in the New Jersey insurance market since 2005, it is not likely that we will enter into replacement carrier transactions which have as significant an impact on our operations or are comparable in size to those entered into prior to 2005. We cannot be certain we will identify possible future replacement carrier transactions with terms we view as being acceptable, or that we will be able to consummate any future replacement carrier transactions. If we do enter into future replacement carrier transactions, we cannot be certain as to the terms of those transactions. If we are unable to enter into future replacement carrier transactions on terms acceptable to us, our revenues may decline. We believe that during the current portion of the personal auto insurance cycle, which in our view is one of growth, it may be more difficult than otherwise to identify acceptable replacement carrier transactions. We have exposure to claims related to severe weather conditions, which may result in an increase in claims frequency and severity. We are subject to claims arising out of severe weather conditions, such as rainstorms, snowstorms and ice storms, that may have a significant effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. There is generally an increase in claims frequency and severity under the private passenger automobile insurance we write when severe weather occurs because a higher incidence of vehicular accidents and other insured losses tend to occur in severe weather conditions. In addition, we have exposure to an increase in claims frequency and severity under the homeowners and other property insurance we write because property damage may result from severe weather conditions. Because some of our insureds live near the New Jersey coastline, we also have a potential exposure to losses from hurricanes and major coastal storms such as Nor’easters. For example, in September 1999 we were impacted by Tropical Storm Floyd. Our direct written premiums in 1999 were approximately $40.2 million, but as a result of Tropical Storm Floyd we paid $1.1 million in claims, of which $0.6 million was for physical damage coverage and $0.5 million was for insured property losses. Although we purchase catastrophe reinsurance to limit our exposure to these types of natural catastrophes, in the event of a major catastrophe resulting in losses to us in excess of $80 million, our losses would exceed the limits of our reinsurance coverage. If we are not able to attract and retain independent agents, we would be limited in our ability to sell our insurance products. We market our insurance solely through independent agents. We do not rely on, nor are we dependent upon, any one particular agent to sell our products. We compete with other insurance carriers for the business of independent agents. Our agents also offer the products of our competitors, some of which offer a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage or higher commissions. Changes in commissions, services or products offered by our competitors could make it harder for us to attract and retain independent agents to sell our insurance products. Established competitors with greater resources may make it difficult for us to market our products effectively and 29 Table of Contents offer our products at a profit. In the past, competition in the New Jersey personal auto insurance market has included significant price competition and there can be no assurance that these conditions will not recur. Although we believe that price competition has not been as intense as in other states, in 1997 and 1998 price competition in the New Jersey personal lines property casualty insurance market increased dramatically. As a result of the price competition during these periods, our profits were reduced because we wrote policies with lower premiums and on terms less favorable to us. In addition, the New Jersey commercial lines property casualty insurance market faced intense price competition during 1998 and 1999. However, since the New Jersey commercial lines market is not subject to some of the more burdensome regulatory aspects of the personal lines market, such as the “take all comers” requirement and the price reductions mandated by AICRA, our profits on our commercial lines business were not as heavily impacted. We and other insurance companies also compete on the basis of the commissions and other cash and non-cash incentives provided to agents. Although a number of national insurers that are much larger than we are do not currently compete in a material way in the New Jersey personal auto insurance market, if one or more of these companies decide to aggressively enter the market, it could reduce our market share in New Jersey and thereby have a material adverse effect on us. These companies include some that would be able to sustain significant losses in order to acquire market share, as well as others which use distribution methods that compete with the independent agent channel we utilize. Our principal competitor which serves the independent agency market and offers a packaged personal lines property and casualty insurance product is Encompass Insurance (an affiliate of Allstate Insurance). Other competitors in the personal lines insurance business include First Trenton and Palisades Insurance. According to the NJDOBI statistics, as of December 31, 2006, based on vehicles in force, the respective share of the personal auto market, excluding policies written in urban enterprise zones, of our principal competitors, Allstate/ Encompass Insurance, Travelers of New Jersey and Palisades Insurance, were 15.71%, 5.07% and 2.75%, respectively. Our share of the personal auto market as of such dates was 1.85%. Although somewhat less competitive than other markets, the New Jersey private passenger auto insurance market has become more competitive in recent years. We face significant competition from large, well-capitalized national companies and we expect that there may be, from time to time, further competition from market entrants. In August 2003, Mercury General entered the New Jersey private passenger auto insurance market. In addition, in August 2004, GEICO re-entered the New Jersey private passenger auto insurance market and in October 2005, Progressive Casualty Insurance Company entered the New Jersey private passenger auto insurance market. Many of these companies may have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we have. In addition, competitors may offer consumers combinations of auto policies and other insurance products or financial services which we do not offer. We could be adversely affected by a loss of business to competitors offering similar insurance products at lower prices or offering bundled products or services and by other competitor initiatives. Competition, especially from larger, more established insurers such as GEICO and Progressive, could cause premium rate reductions, reduced profits or losses, or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to maintain a commercially acceptable financial strength rating would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategies and sell our products. A.M. Best has currently assigned Proformance a secure “B++ (Very Good)” rating. A “B++” rating is A.M. Best’s fifth highest rating out of 15 possible rating classifications for insurance companies. A “B++” rating is assigned to insurers that in A.M. Best’s opinion have a good ability to meet their current obligations to policyholders, but are financially vulnerable to adverse changes in underwriting and economic conditions. A.M. Best bases its ratings on factors that concern policyholders and not upon factors concerning investor protection. An important factor in an insurer’s ability to compete effectively is its A.M. Best rating. Proformance’s A.M. Best rating is lower than those of some of its competitors. On November 20, 2007, A.M. Best announced that it has placed the financial strength rating of B++ (Very Good) and the issuer credit rating (ICR) of “bbb” of Proformance Insurance Company under review with negative implications. Concurrently, A.M. Best placed the ICR of “bb” of Proformance’s holding company, National Atlantic Holdings Corporation under review with negative implications. A.M. Best stated that its rating action was based on the ineffectiveness of certain oversight processes with respect to Proformance’s bodily injury claims function and the 30 Table of Contents subsequent deterioration in A.M. Best’s view of risk-adjusted capitalization. During the third quarter of 2007, management determined that Proformance’s procedures related to bodily injury claims handling and reserving were not applied consistently throughout the organization, which resulted in a significant increase in loss reserves for the third quarter of 2007. Consequently, A.M. Best stated that risk-adjusted capitalization declined to a level below the minimum required for Proformance’s ratings. A decrease in our rating as assigned by A.M Best could limit our ability to operate profitably and may have a significant effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Proformance is rated “A” by Demotech, Inc. Demotech provides financial stability ratings of property and casualty insurers. In addition to A.M. Best, Demotech is the only other authorized rating agency recognized by federally insured lending institutions, such as mortgage companies. Mortgage companies, as a condition to issuing a mortgage, generally require borrowers to obtain adequate homeowners insurance. The mortgage companies often refer to Demotech’s financial stability rating prior to issuing a mortgage. We believe the “A” rating assigned by Demotech is beneficial in connection with our homeowners business. Publications of Demotech indicate that its rating process provides an objective baseline for assessing the solvency of an insurer. A Demotech financial stability rating summarizes its opinion as to the insurer’s ability to insulate itself from the business cycle that exists in the general economy as well as the underwriting cycle that exists in the industry. An “A” rating is Demotech’s third highest rating out of six possible rating classifications for insurers with complete financial data. An “A” rating is assigned to insurers that in Demotech’s opinion possess exceptional financial stability related to maintaining positive surplus as regards policyholders, regardless of the severity of a general economic downturn or deterioration in the insurance cycle. Our A.M. Best and our Demotech ratings are subject to change and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities. Any future decrease in our ratings could affect our ability to sell our products. See “Business — Ratings.” The agreements that we have entered into with our agents do not contain provisions that would permit them to terminate the agreement in the event of a downgrade of our ratings. In addition, our reinsurance agreements with third party reinsurers do not require us to transfer funds into trust or otherwise provide security for the benefit of the reinsurers in the event of a downgrade of our ratings. If our losses and loss adjustment expenses exceed our reserves, we would have to increase our reserves which would lower our earnings. The reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses that we have established are estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and unreported claims and related expenses based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the time we established the reserves. Reserves are based on historical claims information, regulatory change, court decision, industry statistics and other factors. The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process. If our reserves are inadequate and are increased, we would have to treat the amount of such increase as a charge to our earnings in the period that the deficiency is recognized. As a result of these factors, there can be no assurance that our ultimate liability will not materially exceed our reserves, thereby reducing our profitability. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been necessary, and may over time continue to be necessary, to revise estimated future liabilities as reflected in our reserves for claims and policy expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we increased reserves for prior years by $19.6 million. This increase was primarily due to increases in the prior year reserves for auto bodily injury coverage which increased by $22.2 million. This increase was due to an inconsistent implementation of a revised claim reserving policy that was uncovered in the third quarter of 2007. Prior year reserves for other liability increased by $3.6 million. This was offset by favorable development of $4.6 million in no-fault coverages and $1.6 million in commercial auto liability. For the year ended December 31, 2006, reserves decreased by $28.0 million primarily due to a decrease in the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for the same period. This decrease can be attributed to a decline in earned premium, a reduction in claim frequency in private passenger automobile coverage and significant growth in commercial lines business, which in 2006, have exhibited lower loss ratios. For the year ended December 31, 2006, prior year reserves increased by $0.02 million. This increase is due to favorable development in bodily injury and no-fault coverages offset by a reduction in ceded loss estimates for prior years. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we increased reserves for prior years by $10.1 million. This increase was due to (i) increases in average severity for Personal Injury Protection (No-fault) losses 31 Table of Contents of $9.4 million (ii) higher Commercial Auto Liability projected loss ratios for 2002-2004 due to the fact that actual loss development was higher than expected for those years, resulting in an increase of $1.8 million and (iii) Homeowners losses of $0.6 million and Other Liability losses of $1.6 million. This development was partially offset by continued favorable trends in loss development for Property Damage losses ($1.6 million), Auto Physical Damage losses ($1.2 million), and Bodily Injury losses of ($0.5 million), as reported claims frequency has dropped significantly and we have reduced our projected loss ratios in recognition of this trend. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we reduced reserves for prior years by $0.7 million because our actual loss experience observed during the period, especially during the fourth quarter of 2004, was slightly lower than expected due to a reduction in the frequency of claims reported during the fourth quarter of 2004. Historically, Proformance’s reserves have shown a deficiency in every year from 1995 through 2006. The historic development of reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses may not necessarily reflect future trends in the development of these amounts. Accordingly, it is not appropriate to extrapolate redundancies or deficiencies based on historical information. See “Business — Reserves.” If we lose key current personnel or are unable to recruit new qualified personnel, we could be prevented from implementing our business strategy and our ability to capitalize on market opportunities, grow our business and operate efficiently and profitably could be negatively affected. Our future success depends significantly upon the efforts of certain key management personnel, including James V. Gorman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NAHC and Proformance, Peter A. Capello, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of Proformance, Frank J. Prudente, Executive Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer of NAHC, John E. Scanlan, Senior Vice President of Proformance, Bruce C. Bassman, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Actuarial Officer of NAHC, and Douglas A. Wheeler, Esq. General Counsel of NAHC and Proformance. We maintain a $2.5 million key man life insurance policy on Mr. Gorman, as well as on other of our senior executives, the proceeds of which are payable to us. NAHC has entered into employment agreements with James V. Gorman, Frank J. Prudente, John E. Scanlan, and Bruce C. Bassman. In addition, Proformance has entered into employment agreements with Peter A. Cappello, Jr. and Douglas A. Wheeler, Esq. Although we are not aware of any impending departures or retirements, the loss of key personnel could prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and could negatively affect our ability to capitalize on market opportunities, grow our business or operate efficiently and profitably. As we continue to grow, we will need to recruit and retain additional qualified management personnel, and our ability to do so will depend upon a number of factors, such as our results of operations and prospects and the level of competition then prevailing in the market for qualified personnel. Market fluctuations and changes in interest rates could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and our asset base which would limit our ability to underwrite more business. Our results of operations depend in part on the performance of our invested assets. As of December 31, 2007, 99.7% of our investment portfolio was invested in fixed income securities and 0.3% was invested in equity securities. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 64.6% of our fixed income security portfolio was invested in U.S. government and government agency fixed income securities, approximately 32.7% was invested in fixed income securities rated “Aaa”/“Aa” by Moody’s Investor Service, which we refer to as Moody’s, approximately 2.3% was invested in fixed income securities rated “A” by Moody’s, and approximately 0.4% was invested in fixed income securities rated “Baa” by Moody’s. Certain risks are inherent in connection with fixed income securities including loss upon default and price volatility in reaction to changes in interest rates and general market factors. For example, the fair value of our fixed income securities can fluctuate depending on changes in interest rates. Accordingly, changes in interest rates may result in fluctuations in the income from, and the valuation of, our fixed income investments. Large investments losses would significantly decrease our asset base, thereby affecting our ability to underwrite new business. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 9.4%, or $17.3 million, of our total revenue was derived from our invested assets. We may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance arrangements which could cause us to reduce our premiums written in certain lines or could result in losses and we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. In order to reduce risk and to increase our underwriting capacity, we have previously purchased third party reinsurance. Although we expect to decrease our use of third party reinsurance in the future, we may need to purchase additional third party reinsurance in the future. The availability and the cost of reinsurance protection is subject to 32 Table of Contents market conditions, which are outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements. For example, if reinsurance capacity for homeowners risks were reduced as a result of terrorist attacks or other causes, we may seek to reduce the amount of homeowners business we write. In addition, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance because the transfer to reinsurers of insurance risks we underwrite does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. A significant reinsurer’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty could cause us to incur losses and negatively affect our profits. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 approximately 7.2%, 6.5% and 5.2%, respectively, of our direct written premiums were transferred to third party reinsurers. As of December 31, 2007, our largest reinsurance recoverables were due from QBE Reinsurance and OdysseyRe. We do not believe we are substantially dependent on any of our third party reinsurers. We have not experienced in the past the failure of a third party reinsurer to pay any material claims that have been presented to the third party reinsurer. Our agreements with our third party reinsurers do not permit the reinsurer to cancel the reinsurance coverage mid-term in the event of any ratings downgrade of Proformance. Generally, our reinsurance agreements are one-year agreements and are renegotiated annually. However, in the event we were unable to reach an agreement with a current reinsurer of our business or a reinsurer terminates our reinsurance agreement, we may encounter difficulties obtaining or negotiating reinsurance coverage because we operate exclusively in New Jersey, a coastal state, and Proformance is rated “B++” by A.M. Best. If we were unable to maintain or obtain reinsurance coverage adequate for our business, we would not be able to reduce our exposure to insurance risks which could cause us to incur substantial losses and could cause us to write less new business. Because we continue to reduce our use of third party reinsurance, we will retain more risk, which could result in more losses. We currently use third party reinsurance primarily to increase our underwriting capacity and to reduce our exposure to losses. See “Business — Reinsurance.” Since we continue to reduce our use of third party reinsurance in addition to using Mayfair, our reinsurance subsidiary, we will retain more gross premiums written over time, but will also retain more of the related losses. Reducing our third-party reinsurance will increase our risk and exposure to losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our information technology and telecommunication systems, and the failure of these systems could limit our ability to operate efficiently and cause us to lose business. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunication systems. We rely on these systems to support our direct and indirect marketing operations and our agents’ basic underwriting and claim-processing efforts, as well as to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments, and facilitate collections and cancellations. These systems also enable us to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for underwriting and rate development. The failure of these systems could interrupt our operations or materially impact our ability to evaluate and write new business. In June of 2007, the Company began development of a new claims system and premium processing system to be used in its workman’s compensation line of business. We anticipate the new system to cost approximately $250,000, of which we have capitalized and recorded as property and equipment, $237,000 as of December 31, 2007. There is no assurance that we will successfully complete this process or that we will not experience additional cost, implementation delay, operation disruption or system failure in connection with this transition. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or such third party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service or pay claims in a timely manner. This could cause us to lose business. In March, 2007, The Company placed into service its new premium processing and claims system which had been in development since December of 2004. As of December 31, 2007, we have capitalized and recorded as property and equipment, $1,964,209 and recorded depreciation and amortization expense related to the software in the amount of $492,253. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had expensed $0 and $519,105 of the software development costs, respectively. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry As a result of cyclical changes, which may include periods of price competition, excess capacity, high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity in the personal auto insurance industry, our results may materially fluctuate, affecting our ability to effectively market and price our products. The personal auto insurance industry is historically cyclical in nature. The industry has been characterized by periods of price competition and excess underwriting capacity followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. During periods of price competition and excess capacity, such as in 1997 and 1998, our profitability is negatively impacted as we are forced to issue insurance policies with lower premiums and on terms less favorable to us. The personal auto insurance industry also experiences periods of higher premium rates during which we may experience growth and increased profitability. During periods of higher premium rates or at other times the New Jersey legislature may take action which negatively impacts our profitability. In 1998, the New Jersey legislature adopted the AICRA in order to curtail the rising costs of automobile insurance to New Jersey insureds. The adoption of AICRA negatively impacted our profitability. Approximately four years ago, the New Jersey market experienced increasing bodily injury loss costs which caused us to incur additional losses, thereby reducing our profitability. The duration of the cycles experienced in the New Jersey personal automobile insurance industry is subject to many variables, but historically have ranged from two to seven years. We believe the New Jersey personal automobile market is currently in a period of growth and new competitors, such as Mercury General, Progressive and GEICO, have entered the market. This market is exhibiting price competition which may hinder our ability to operate profitably as we are forced to write policies at lower premiums and on terms less favorable to us. We expect that our business will continue to experience the effects of this cyclicality, including periods of price competition, which, over the course of time, could result in material fluctuations in our premium volume, revenues and expenses and make it difficult to effectively market and price our products. We are subject to comprehensive regulation in the State of New Jersey, particularly by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, and we must obtain prior approval to take certain actions which may limit our ability to take advantage of profitable opportunities. General Regulation We are subject to regulation by the NJDOBI, and we must obtain prior approval for certain corporate actions. We must comply with laws and regulations involving: • Transactions between an insurance company and any of its affiliates; • The payment of dividends; • The acquisition of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company; • Approval or filing of premium rates and policy forms; • Solvency standards; • Minimum amounts of capital and policyholders’ surplus which must be maintained; • Limitations on types and amounts of investments; • Restrictions on the size of risks which may be insured by a single company; • Limitation of the right to cancel or non-renew policies in some lines; • Regulation of the right to withdraw from markets or terminate involvement with agencies; • Requirements to participate in residual markets; • Licensing of insurers and agents; • Deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; 34 Table of Contents • Reporting with respect to our financial condition, including the adequacy of our reserves and provisions for unearned premiums; • Unfair trade and claims practices; and • The type of accounting we must use at Proformance in order to comply with statutory reporting requirements. In addition, insurance department examiners from New Jersey perform periodic financial and market conduct examinations of insurance companies. Such regulation is generally intended for the protection of policyholders rather than security holders. We are subject to assessments by the New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty Association, which assessments would reduce the capital available to us to operate our business. New Jersey law requires that property and casualty insurers licensed to do business in New Jersey participate in the New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty Association, which we refer to as NJPLIGA. NJPLIGA must pay any claim up to $300,000 of a policyholder of an insolvent insurer if the claim existed prior to the declaration of insolvency or arose within 90 days after the declaration of insolvency. Members of NJPLIGA are assessed the amount NJPLIGA deems necessary to pay its obligations and its expenses in connection with handling covered claims. We are able to recoup these assessments from our in-force policyholders. Subject to certain exceptions, assessments are made in the proportion that each member’s net direct written premiums for the prior calendar year for all property and casualty lines bear to the corresponding net direct written premiums for NJPLIGA members for the same period. By statute, no insurer in New Jersey may be assessed in any year an amount greater than 2% of that insurer’s net direct written premiums for the calendar year prior to the assessment. In 2007, Proformance was assessed approximately $2.0 million as its portion of the losses due to insolvencies of certain insurers. We anticipate that there will be additional assessments from time to time relating to insolvencies of various insurance companies. As a result of the timing difference between when we are assessed by NJPILGA and the related funds are able to be collected from the policyholders by us, the difference between the related receivable and payable balance could adversely impact our cash flow. Our failure to meet risk based capital standards could subject us to examination or corrective action by state regulators. Proformance is subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of the State of New Jersey. These risk-based capital standards, based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the NAIC, require Proformance to report its results of risk-based capital calculations to the NJDOBI and the NAIC. Failure to meet applicable risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject Proformance to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business or engaging in financing activities, state supervision or even liquidation. Any changes in existing risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we may be unable to do. As of December 31, 2007, Proformance maintained a risk-based capital level in excess of the amount that would require any corrective actions on our part. 35 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the risk-based capital of Proformance as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Proformance Insurance Company Risk-Based Capital(1) As of December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Total Adjusted Capital $ 125,712 $ 128,031 $ 104,727 Company Action Level = 200% of Authorized Control Level 38,806 36,337 58,985 Regulatory Action Level = 150% of Authorized Control Level 29,105 27,253 44,239 Authorized Control Level = 100% of Authorized Control Level 19,403 18,168 29,493 Mandatory Control Level = 70% of Authorized Control Level $ 13,582 $ 12,718 $ 20,645 (1) For a description of the regulatory action that may be taken at each level, see “Business — Supervision and Regulation — Risk Based Capital Requirements.” If we fail to satisfy a sufficient number of IRIS Ratios, we would be subject to regulatory action which could negatively affect our ability to operate our business efficiently and profitably. The NAIC has developed a set of financial relationships or “tests” known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System, or IRIS that were designed to assist state insurance regulators in the early identification of companies which may require special attention or action. Insurance companies submit data annually to the NAIC which analyzes the data against defined “usual ranges.” Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory scrutiny if it falls outside the usual ranges of four or more of the ratios. As of December 31, 2007, Proformance did not fall outside of the usual range for any of the ratio tests. New Jersey Personal Auto Insurance Regulation We are subject to extensive regulation in the New Jersey personal auto insurance industry which is subject to change, and we can give you no assurance that any changes in the regulations would not significantly limit our ability to operate our business profitably. We are subject to extensive regulation of the private passenger automobile insurance industry in New Jersey. Such regulation is primarily for the benefit and protection of insurance policyholders rather than shareholders, and could change at any time. Thus, government regulation, which is subject to change, could significantly limit our profitability and may conflict with the interests of our shareholders. Recently, the NJDOBI proposed certain amendments to its personal auto insurance regulations. Under the proposed regulations, New Jersey insurance companies, such as Proformance, would be permitted to raise rates for certain drivers above limitations that are currently in place and lower rates for certain other drivers. In addition, the proposed regulations would permit insurance companies to use their own data to develop rating maps. The proposal would permit up to 50 rating territories across New Jersey compared to the 27 territories now recognized in New Jersey. There can be no assurance that the proposed regulations will be adopted, nor can we be certain how these regulations, if adopted, would impact our operations. Recently, a number of governmental entities have launched investigations and filed lawsuits involving certain practices in the insurance and broker industry relating to compensation and other arrangements between brokers and insurers and their dealings with clients and insureds. In addition, the Commissioner of the NJDOBI (whom we refer to as the Commissioner) has announced a probe into the New Jersey insurance industry and broker practices. The 36 Table of Contents NJDOBI has established a task force which will work with the New Jersey Attorney General’s Office to look into recent allegations of bid-rigging and other sales-related insurance activities. Although we believe that these ongoing governmental investigations will not directly impact us, these investigations could lead to regulatory or legislative changes that could affect the manner in which we conduct our business or our profitability. Such investigations or a change in the regulatory environment could also impact the stock prices of companies in the insurance industry such as NAHC. The NAIC adopted model legislation in December 2004, implementing new disclosure requirements with respect to compensation of insurance producers. The model legislation requires that insurance producers obtain the consent of the insured and disclose to the insured, where such producers receive any compensation from the insured, the amount of compensation from the insurer. In those cases where the contingent commission is not known, producers would be required to provide a reasonable estimate of the amount and method for calculating such compensation. Producers who represent companies and do not receive compensation from the insured would have a duty to disclose that relationship in certain circumstances. The NAIC directed its task force on broker activities to give further consideration to the development of additional requirements for the model legislation, such as recognition of a fiduciary responsibility of producers, disclosure of all quotes received by a broker, and disclosures relating to agent-owned reinsurance arrangements. There can be no assurance that the model legislation or any other legislation or regulation will be adopted in New Jersey, nor can we be certain how such legislation or regulation, if adopted, would impact our operations or financial condition. We cannot be certain of the impact that the New Jersey Automobile Insurance Competition & Choice Act or any future legislative initiatives will have on our business and operations. The New Jersey legislature adopted the Fair Automobile Insurance Reform Act of 1990 which created a difficult insurance market environment and led to many insurers exiting or reducing their auto insurance market share in New Jersey. To curtail the rising costs of automobile insurance to consumers in New Jersey, the New Jersey legislature adopted AICRA which negatively affected the profitability of automobile insurers in New Jersey. On June 9, 2003, the Governor of New Jersey signed into law the New Jersey Automobile Insurance Competition & Choice Act, which we refer to as the AICC Act. The AICC Act was enacted to bring new competition to the New Jersey auto insurance markets and to provide consumers with choices for auto insurance. Regulatory changes adopted under this new legislation include, but are not limited to, establishing a seven-year (replacing a three-year) look-back period for an excess profits determination; phasing out the auto insurance “take all comers” requirement (which required insurers to cover virtually all applicants); increasing the annual “expedited” rate filing statewide average rate change maximum from 3% to 7%; requiring insurers to provide three premium scenarios illustrating the effect of different coverage choices to new applicants; establishing the Special Automobile Insurance Policy for low income individuals; and establishing an Insurance Fraud Detection Reward Program to assist in the prosecution of insurance frauds and permit enhanced cancellation of policies due to frauds. We cannot be certain how these legislative changes or future legislative changes will affect our operations, nor can we be sure whether any additional legislation would reverse the effect of the AICC Act. The impact of these legislative changes and additional legislative changes, if any, could reduce our profitability and limit our ability to grow our business. We are subject to the New Jersey “excess profits” requirements which require us to refund or credit “excess profits” to our policyholders. Each insurer in New Jersey is required to file an annual report which includes a calculation of statutory profits on private passenger automobile business. If the insurer has excess statutory profits as determined by a prescribed formula, the insurer is required to submit a plan for the approval of the Commissioner to refund or credit the excess profits to policyholders. Prior to the AICC Act, the calculation of statutory profits was based on the three-year period immediately prior to the report, and the amount of actuarial gain an insurer could report without being considered to have excess profits was limited to 2.5% of its earned premium, with actuarial gain defined as underwriting income minus 3.5% of earned premium. The AICC Act extended the time period for the calculation of statutory profits from three years to seven years to take into account market fluctuations over a longer period of time. The AICC Act also changed the basis for determining actuarial gain from earned premium to policyholder surplus. The term actuarial gain now means underwriting income minus an allowance for profit and contingencies (which shall not exceed 12% of policyholder surplus). The Commissioner is authorized to adjust this percentage no less frequently than biennially. The calculation of statutory profits for 2007 will not be completed until the second quarter of 2008. Therefore, the determination as to whether we have exceeded the excess profit threshold for 2007 will not be known until that time. However, based upon our year end 2007 results, management believes that the excess profit threshold has not been 37 Table of Contents exceeded. As of December 31, 2006, we did not exceed the excess profit threshold in respect to any prior look-back period. We are subject to New Jersey’s “Take All Comers” requirements whereby we are not permitted to refuse to issue policies in those rating territories to certain applicants which could negatively impact our underwriting results. Since 1992, with very few exceptions, auto insurers were not permitted to refuse coverage to an eligible applicant. Under this “take all comers” requirement, insurers could not refuse to issue a policy to an applicant who was deemed to be eligible if that applicant had not been convicted of serious motor vehicle infractions such as driving while intoxicated or vehicular homicide in the past three years. The AICC Act phases out the “take all comers” requirement over five years, to become inoperative on January 1, 2009. Also, the AICC Act provides for an exemption from the “take all comers” requirement for insurers that increase their private passenger auto insurance non-fleet exposures by certain amounts. The exemption criteria are applied every six months to determine if the insurer remains exempt. Insurers that increased their private passenger auto insurance non-fleet exposures by 4% in a rating territory during the one-year period ended on January 1, 2005 are exempt from the “take all comers” requirement in that rating territory for the subsequent six-month period, at which time the 4% standard is applied to determine if the insurer remains exempt. Insurers that increase their private passenger auto insurance non-fleet exposures by the following amounts in a rating territory will also be exempt from the “take all comers” requirement in that rating territory, subject to review every six months, 3% in the one-year period ended January 1, 2006, 2% in the one-year period ended January 1, 2007, and 1% in the one-year period ending January 1, 2008. We are subject to New Jersey’s “urban enterprise zone” requirements. Unless we write enough business in designated “urban enterprise zones,” we may be assigned business in those zones by the State of New Jersey which could negatively impact our underwriting results. New Jersey law requires auto insurers to have the same proportionate share of business in designated “urban enterprise zones” across the state as is equal to their proportionate share of the auto insurance market in the state as a whole. If an insurer does not achieve its minimum requirements, it may be assigned business by the state to fill such requirements, which tends to be unprofitable business. As of December 31, 2007, Proformance satisfies its requirements in each urban enterprise zone primarily as a result of voluntary writings and the influx of policies from our replacement carrier transactions. There can be no assurance that Proformance will continue to satisfy its requirements in the future, in which case it may be assigned business by the state, which could have a negative effect on our underwriting results. Because we are unable to predict with certainty changes in the political, economic or regulatory environments in New Jersey in the future, there can be no assurance that existing insurance-related laws and regulations will not become more restrictive in the future or that new restrictive laws or regulations will not be enacted and, therefore, it is not possible to predict the potential effects of these laws and regulations on us. See “Business — General Regulation.” The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military and other actions may result in decreases in our net income, revenue and assets under management and may adversely affect our investment portfolio. The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and the ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the equity markets in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Actual terrorist attacks could cause losses from insurance claims related to the property and casualty insurance operations of Proformance, as well as a decrease in Proformance’s surplus and net income and our consolidated stockholders’ equity, net income and/or revenue. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which was extended and amended by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, requires that some coverage for terrorist acts be offered by primary property and casualty insurers such as Proformance and provides federal assistance for recovery of claims through 2007. In addition, some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. The assets in our equity portfolio that we believe may be adversely affected based on threats of terrorism and increased security measures are comprised principally of equity securities of companies in the energy, insurance and transportation sectors. As of December 31, 2007, our equity portfolio had a current fair value of $1.0 million. The equity portfolio constituted approximately 0.3% of our total investment portfolio at that date. Our 38 Table of Contents equity portfolio at December 31, 2007 did not include any insurance, energy or transportation stocks. We cannot predict at this time whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of potential decreased commercial and economic activity, or how any such decrease might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. We cannot assure you that the threats of future terrorist-like events in the United States and abroad or military actions by the United States will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions and class action litigation are continually emerging in the automobile insurance industry, and these new issues could adversely impact our revenues or our methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to pricing, claims, coverages, financing and business practices may emerge. The resolution and implication of these issues can have an adverse effect on our business by changing the way we price our products, by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, or by increasing the size of claims. For example, one emerging issue in New Jersey relates to the judicial interpretation of New Jersey’s no-fault and uninsured motorist statutes. Since we have underwritten and priced our products based on current judicial interpretations of New Jersey’s no-fault and uninsured motorist statute, any changes in the judicial interpretations may be inconsistent with our underwriting and pricing assumptions which could cause us to incur more losses than we anticipated on those products. For example, on June 14, 2005, the New Jersey Supreme Court in Diprospero v. Penn, et. al. interpreted the State’s No-Fault Law, to allow non-economic “pain and suffering” lawsuits for automobile accident injuries that are permanent but do not have a serious lifestyle impact. Absent a need to demonstrate both serious lifestyle impact and permanent injuries, we expect an increase in the number of lawsuits for minor injuries. Recent court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for litigation claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic, treble or punitive damages may be sought. The loss of even one claim, if it results in a significant punitive damages award, could significantly worsen our financial condition or results of operations. This risk of potential liability may make reasonable settlements of claims more difficult to obtain. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have principal shareholders who have the ability to exert significant influence over our operations, including controlling the election of directors. As of December 31, 2007, James V. Gorman beneficially owned approximately 14.13% of the total outstanding common stock of NAHC on a fully diluted basis. Mr. Gorman is also Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of NAHC and Proformance. Until such time as Mr. Gorman sells or disposes all or most of the common stock he holds, he would have the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and affairs, including election of our directors and significant corporation transactions. Mr. Gorman’s interests may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. As a holding company, NAHC is dependent on the results of operations of its operating subsidiaries, particularly Proformance, and the ability of Proformance to pay a dividend to us is limited by the insurance laws and regulations of New Jersey. NAHC is a company and a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, including Proformance. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, the principal sources of NAHC’s funds are dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries. Our rights, and consequently your rights as shareholders, to participate in any distribution of assets of Proformance are subject to prior claims of policyholders, creditors and preferred shareholders, if any, of Proformance. Consequently, our ability to pay debts, expenses and cash dividends to our shareholders may be limited. The payment of dividends and other distributions to NAHC by Proformance is regulated by New Jersey insurance law and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed “extraordinary” and require prior 39 Table of Contents insurance regulatory approval. See “Business — General Regulation — Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends.” Under New Jersey law, an insurer may pay dividends that are not considered extraordinary only from its unassigned surplus, also known as its earned surplus. As of December 31, 2007, Proformance is not permitted to pay dividends without the approval of the Commissioner as it has negative unassigned surplus of $1.8 million. Pursuant to statutory accounting principles, net income or loss from operations flows through the line item entitled “unassigned surplus funds” on Proformance’s statutory surplus statement. We believe that the current level of cash flow from operations provides us with sufficient liquidity to meet our operating needs over the next 12 months. We expect to be able to continue to meet our operating needs after the next 12 months from internally generated funds. Since our ability to meet our obligations in the long term (beyond such 12-month period) is dependent upon such factors as market changes, insurance regulatory changes and economic conditions, we can give you no assurance that the available net cash flow will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. There are anti-takeover provisions contained in our organizational documents and in laws of the State of New Jersey that could delay or impede the removal of our directors and management and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us more difficult, or could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us, even if such a transaction were beneficial to the interest of our shareholders. Our organizational documents and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act contain certain provisions that could delay or impede the removal of directors and management and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us more difficult, or could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us, even if such a transaction were beneficial to the interest of our shareholders. Our organizational documents have authorized 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which we could issue without further shareholder approval and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as our Board of Directors may determine. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. For example, if in the due exercise of its fiduciary obligations, our Board of Directors were to determine that a takeover proposal is not in our best interests, our Board of Directors could cause shares of preferred stock to be issued without shareholder approval in one or more private offerings or other transactions that might dilute the voting or other rights of the proposed acquirer or insurgent shareholder or shareholder group. Such preferred stock could also have the right to vote separately as a class with respect to a merger, takeover or other significant corporate transactions. We have no current plans to issue any preferred stock. In addition, our organizational documents provide for a classified Board of Directors with staggered terms, provide that directors may be removed only for “cause”, prohibit shareholders from taking action by written consent, prohibit shareholders from calling a special meeting of shareholders and require advance notice of nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing business that can be acted upon by shareholders. These provisions could delay or impede the removal of directors and management and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us more difficult. We are also subject to Section 14A:10A-4 of the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, which we refer to as the Protection Act, which prohibits certain New Jersey corporations from engaging in business combinations (including mergers, consolidations, significant asset dispositions and certain stock issuances) with any “interested shareholder” (defined to include, among others, any person that becomes a beneficial owner of 10% or more of the affected corporation’s voting power) for five years after such person becomes an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved by the Board of Directors of the corporation prior to the date the shareholder became an interested shareholder. In addition, Section 14A:10A-5 of the Protection Act prohibits any business combination at any time with an interested shareholder other than a transaction (i) that is approved by the Board of Directors of the corporation prior to the date the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder, or (ii) that is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the voting stock not beneficially owned by the interested shareholder, or (iii) in which the corporation’s common shareholders receive payment for their shares that meets certain “fair price” standards prescribed in the statute. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us and prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit of any premium over the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. New Jersey insurance laws prohibit any person from acquiring control of us, and thus indirect control of Proformance, without the prior approval of the Commissioner. Control is presumed to exist when any person, directly 40 Table of Contents or indirectly, owns, controls, holds the power to vote or holds proxies representing 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Even persons who do not acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our voting stock may be deemed to have acquired such control if the Commissioner determines that such control exists in fact. Therefore, any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face regulatory obstacles which could delay, deter or prevent an acquisition that shareholders might consider in their best interests. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Our additional needs for capital will depend on our actual claims experience, especially with respect to any catastrophic or other unusual events. It is our objective to maintain sufficient capital so that Proformance will have a ratio of direct written premiums to statutory surplus of no more than 3 to 1. As of December 31, 2007, the ratio was 1.42 to 1.0. We believe that the current level of cash flow from operations, as well as the net proceeds from our initial public offering, provides us with sufficient capital to achieve this ratio and to satisfy our operating needs over the next 12 months. We expect to be able to continue to meet these capital needs after the next 12 months from internally generated funds. Since our ability to meet our obligations in the long term (beyond such 12-month period) is dependent upon such factors as market changes, insurance regulatory changes and economic conditions, we can give you no assurance that the available net cash flow will be sufficient to meet these needs. We may need to raise additional capital through equity or debt financing. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we could be forced to curtail our growth or reduce our assets. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our existing shareholders, officers or employees in the public market, or the possibility or perception of such future sales, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. As of December 31, 2007, James V. Gorman owned approximately 14.13% of the total outstanding common stock of NAHC on a fully diluted basis. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares by our existing shareholders, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the prevailing market price of our common stock from time to time. For instance, in June 2005, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the Securities Act, to register shares of our common stock issued or reserved for issuance under our 2004 Stock and Incentive Plan. Subject to the exercise of issued and outstanding options, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale into the public markets unless such shares are subject to vesting or legal restrictions. In June 2005, we also filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register shares of our Class B Nonvoting Stock issued or reserved for issuance under our Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan. All of the shares reserved for issuance under the Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan are fully vested and are available for sale into the public market. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will not receive funds without selling shares and you will only see a return on your investment if the value of the shares appreciates. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is dependent upon, among other things, the availability of dividends from our subsidiaries, including Proformance. The ability of Proformance to pay dividends to us is restricted by New Jersey insurance law. See “Business — General Regulation.” As of December 31, 2007, Proformance is not permitted to pay dividends without the approval of the Commissioner. Accordingly, since we do not anticipate paying dividends, our shareholders will only see a return on their investment if the value of the shares appreciates. We cannot assure our shareholders that they will receive a return on their investment when they sell their shares or that they will not lose all or part of their investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 41 Table of Contents 