Risk Factors – If we cannot meet requirements under our license agreements, we could lose the rights to our products.” Intellectual property rights of third parties could limit our ability to develop and market our products. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability to operate our business without infringing the patents or violating the proprietary rights of others. In certain cases, the USPTO keeps United States patent applications confidential while the applications are pending. As a result, we cannot determine in advance what inventions third parties may claim in their pending patent applications. We may need to defend or enforce our patent and license rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others through legal proceedings, which would be costly, unpredictable and time consuming. Even in proceedings where the outcome is favorable to us, they would likely divert substantial resources, including management time, from our other activities. Moreover, any adverse determination could subject us to significant liability or require us to seek licenses that third parties might not grant to us or might only grant at rates that diminish or deplete the profitability of our products. An adverse determination could also require us to alter our products or processes or cease altogether any product sales or related research and development activities. If we cannot meet requirements under our license agreements, we could lose the rights to our products. We depend on licensing agreements with third parties to maintain the intellectual property rights to our products under development. Presently, we have licensed rights from Johnson & Johnson, Ortho Pharmaceutical, PMUSA and PMPSA. These agreements require us to make payments and satisfy performance obligations to maintain our rights under these licensing agreements. All of these agreements last either throughout the life of the patents or for a number of years after the first commercial sale of the relevant product. 38 In addition, we are responsible for the cost of filing and prosecuting certain patent applications and maintaining certain issued patents licensed to us. If we do not meet our obligations under our license agreements in a timely manner, we could lose the rights to our proprietary technology. Finally, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies. Licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights might not be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We rely on confidentiality agreements that could be breached and may be difficult to enforce. Although we take what we believe to be reasonable steps to protect our intellectual property, including the use of agreements relating to the non-disclosure of our confidential information to third parties, as well as agreements that provide for disclosure and assignment to us of all rights to the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions of our employees and consultants while we employ them, such agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce. We generally seek to enter into these types of agreements with consultants, advisors and research collaborators; however, to the extent that such parties apply or independently develop intellectual property in connection with any of our projects, disputes may arise concerning allocation of the related proprietary rights. Such disputes often involve significant expense and yield unpredictable results. In addition, we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors or others. Despite the protective measures we employ, we still face the risk that: · agreements may be breached; · agreements may not provide adequate remedies for the applicable type of breach; · our trade secrets or proprietary know-how may otherwise become known; · our competitors may independently develop similar technology; or · our competitors may independently discover our proprietary information and trade secrets. We depend upon key employees and consultants in a competitive market for skilled personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, it could adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management team, especially our Chief Executive Officer, Robert J. Capetola, Ph.D., and our directors, as well as our scientific advisory board members, consultants and collaborating scientists. Many of these people have been involved with us for many years, have played integral roles in our progress and we believe that they continue to provide value to us. A loss of any of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on aspects of our business and clinical development and regulatory programs. In 2006, we entered into amended and new employment agreements without executives that generally include provisions such as a stated term and enhanced severance benefits in the event of a change of control. We also provide our key employees equity incentives in the form of stock and option grants. As of December 31, 2008, we had employment agreements with 14 officers that expire in May 2010. These agreements provide for automatic one-year renewal at the end of each term, unless otherwise terminated by either party. Although these employment agreements generally include non-competition covenants and provide for severance payments that are contingent upon the applicable employee’s refraining from competition with us, the applicable noncompete provisions can be difficult and costly to monitor and enforce. The loss of any of these persons’ services would adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Further, we do not maintain key-man life insurance. Our future success also will depend in part on the continued service of our key scientific and management personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. We may experience intense competition for qualified personnel and the existence of non-competition agreements between prospective employees and their former employers may prevent us from hiring those individuals or subject us to suit from their former employers. 39 While we attempt to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel, some of our competitors are likely to have greater resources and more experience than we have, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel. Our industry is highly competitive and we have less capital and resources than many of our competitors, which may give them an advantage in developing and marketing products similar to ours or make our products obsolete. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological innovation and evolving industry standards. We compete with numerous existing companies intensely in many ways. We intend to market our products under development for the treatment of diseases for which other technologies and treatments are rapidly developing and, consequently, we expect new companies to enter our industry and that competition in the industry will increase. Many of these companies have substantially greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial, technological, personnel and managerial resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in: · developing products; · undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals or products; and · manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA or comparable foreign approval or commercializing products before us. If we commence commercial product sales, we will compete against companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities who may successfully develop and commercialize products that are more effective or less expensive than ours. These are areas in which, as yet, we have limited or no experience. In addition, developments by our competitors may render our drug product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We also face, and will continue to face, competition from colleges, universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations. These competitors frequently aggressively seek patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technology that they have developed. Some of these technologies may compete directly with the technologies that we are developing. These institutions will also compete with us in recruiting highly qualified scientific personnel. We expect that therapeutic developments in the areas in which we are active may occur at a rapid rate and that competition will intensify as advances in this field are made. As a result, we need to continue to devote substantial resources and efforts to research and development activities. If product liability claims are brought against us, it may result in reduced demand for our products or damages that exceed our insurance coverage and we may incur substantial costs. The clinical testing, marketing and use of our products exposes us to product liability claims if the use or misuse of our products causes injury, disease or results in adverse effects. Use of our products in clinical trials, as well as commercial sale, if approved, could result in product liability claims. In addition, sales of our products through third party arrangements could also subject us to product liability claims. We presently carry product liability insurance with coverage of up to $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. However, this insurance coverage includes various deductibles, limitations and exclusions from coverage, and in any event might not fully cover any potential claims. We may need to obtain additional product liability insurance coverage, including by locally-authorized insurers licensed in countries where we conduct our clinical trials, before initiating clinical trials. We expect to obtain product liability insurance coverage before commercializing any of our drug product candidates; however, such insurance is expensive and may not be available when we need it. In the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance, with acceptable limits and retentions, at an acceptable cost. Any product liability claim, even one that is within the limits of our insurance coverage or one that is meritless and/or unsuccessful, could adversely affect the availability or cost of insurance generally and our cash available for other purposes, such as research and development. In addition, such claims could result in: 40 · uninsured expenses related to defense or payment of substantial monetary awards to claimants; · a decrease in demand for our drug product candidates; · damage to our reputation; and · an inability to complete clinical trial programs or to commercialize our drug product candidates, if approved. Moreover, the existence of a product liability claim could affect the market price of our common stock. Our corporate compliance program cannot ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations affecting our activities in the jurisdictions in which we may sell our products, if approved, and a failure to comply with such regulations or prevail in litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. Many of our activities, including the research, development, manufacture, sale and marketing of our products, are subject to extensive laws and regulation, including without limitation, health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance policy and oversight program based upon what we understand to be current industry best practices, but we cannot assure you that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such investigations, actions or lawsuits are instituted against us, and if we are not successful in defending or disposing of them without liability, such investigations, actions or lawsuits could result in the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions and could otherwise have a significant impact on our business. We expect to face uncertainty over reimbursement and healthcare reform. In both the United States and other countries, sales of our products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, which include governmental health administration authorities, managed care providers and private health insurers. Third party payers increasingly challenge the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Moreover, the current political environment in the United States and abroad may result in the passage of significant legislation that could, among other things, restructure the markets in which we operate and restrict pricing strategies of drug development companies. If, for example, price restrictions were placed on the distribution of our drugs, we may be forced to curtail development of our pipeline products and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we succeed in commercializing our drug products, uncertainties regarding health care policy, legislation and regulation, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in quantities or at prices that will enable us to achieve profitability. To obtain reimbursement from a third party payer, it must determine that our drug product is a covered benefit under its health plan, which is likely to require a determination that our product is: · safe, effective and medically necessary; · appropriate for the specific patient; · cost-effective; and · neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining a determination that a product is a covered benefit may be a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data about our products to each payer. We may not be able to provide sufficient data to gain coverage. Even when a payer determines that a product is covered, the payer may impose limitations that preclude payment for some uses that are approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Moreover, coverage does not imply that any product will be covered in all cases or that reimbursement will be available at a rate that would permit a health care provider to cover its costs of using our product. 41 Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, our Amended and Restated By-Laws, our Shareholder Rights Agreement and Delaware law could defer a change of our management and thereby discourage or delay offers to acquire us. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, our Amended and Restated By-Laws, our Shareholder Rights Agreement and Delaware law may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or for our stockholders to remove existing management, and might discourage a third party from offering to acquire us, even if a change in control or in management would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, allows us to issue shares of preferred stock without any vote or further action by our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, before the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, could issue large blocks of preferred stock. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Agreement, which under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of us without prior approval of our Board of Directors thereby discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the Shareholder Rights Agreement would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. The failure to prevail in litigation or the costs of litigation, including securities class action and patent claims, could harm our financial performance and business operations. We are potentially susceptible to litigation. For example, as a public company, we may be subject to claims asserting violations of securities laws. Even if such actions are found to be without merit, the potential impact of such actions, which generally seek unquantified damages and attorneys’ fees and expenses, is uncertain. There can be no assurance that an adverse result in any future proceeding would not have a potentially material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have from time to time been involved in disputes and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, including in connection with the conduct of clinical trials. Such claims, with or without merit, if not resolved, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. Although we believe such claims are unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, it is impossible to predict with certainty the eventual outcome of such claims and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any proceeding to which we may be a party. In addition, as the USPTO keeps United States patent applications confidential in certain cases while the applications are pending, we cannot ensure that our products or methods do not infringe upon the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are applied for and issued, the risk increases that our patents or patent applications for our SRT product candidates may give rise to a declaration of interference by the USPTO, or to administrative proceedings in foreign patent offices, or that our activities lead to claims of patent infringement by other companies, institutions or individuals. These entities or persons could bring legal proceedings against us seeking to invalidate our patents, obtain substantial damages or enjoin us from conducting research and development activities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 42 ITEM 