ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and any of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The following risks, among others, could cause our actual results, performance, achievements or industry results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements contained herein and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. In such case, the market price of our common stock would likely decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. If we do not secure FDA approval of Surfaxin for the prevention of RDS in premature infants during the next review cycle, or if other delays associated with the FDA’s review process occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and make it more difficult to secure required additional capital. Moreover, if Surfaxin is approved, we will need additional capital and/or commercialization resources to support the launch of Surfaxin. Our ability to execute our business plans is dependent in large part upon our ability to complete the comprehensive preclinical program, file the Complete Response to the 2009 Complete Response Letter and satisfy the FDA as to the anticipated review activities that we expect will occur during the six-month review period. There can be no assurance that the FDA will conclude its review within the anticipated time frame. There can be no assurance that we will secure U.S. marketing approval of Surfaxin as a result of this review, if at all. If we are not successful in gaining approval of Surfaxin, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 After taking our February 2011 financing into account, we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our planned research and development activities to the end of the second quarter of 2012. Our plans include activities to potentially advance Surfaxin LS and Aerosurf towards planned Phase 3 and Phase 2 clinical trials, the filing the Complete Response and the potential approval of Surfaxin, which we anticipate could occur in the first quarter of 2012. If we are unable to secure the approval of Surfaxin within this time frame, we will have to seek new capital to continue our operations. Such capital could take the form of strategic partnerships, alliances or financings and other similar transactions. However, if we do not secure FDA marketing approval for Surfaxin, we believe that it may be more difficult to identify strategic partnerships, alliances or financings on terms that are favorable to us, if at all, than it would be if we were to secure FDA approval for Surfaxin. If we are unable to secure additional capital on terms that are acceptable to us, our business would be harmed. See, “ – The 2009 Complete Response Letter and the resulting delay in our gaining approval of Surfaxin has caused us to make fundamental changes in our business strategy and to take steps to conserve our financial resources, which may expose us to unanticipated risks and uncertainties. We plan to continue assessing our regulatory position and available resources and may implement at any time additional and potentially significant changes to our business strategy, development programs and our operations, which, if adopted, could prove to be disruptive and detrimental to our development programs.” Moreover, as we conserve our resources pending the potential approval of Surfaxin, we have made only limited investments in preparing for the potential commercialization of Surfaxin. Therefore, if we succeed in gaining U.S. marketing approval for Surfaxin, we will need additional capital and or commercialization resources, through strategic partnerships, marketing alliances or other transactions, to fund the commercialization activities associated with the launch of our drug product. If we are unable to secure a strategic partnership, marketing alliance or other similar transaction that would provide for the commercialization of Surfaxin, or if we are unable to secure additional capital to build our own commercial organization, even if we succeed in gaining approval of Surfaxin, we may be unable to launch our product and therefore, could be unable to generate revenues from our approved product to support our business. See, “– We currently have limited expertise in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products and limited marketing capabilities, which may restrict our success in commercializing our product candidates. To launch our drug product candidates, if approved, we plan to seek third-party distribution arrangements and marketing alliances, which could require us to give up rights to our drug product candidates. As we continue to assess our business and regulatory position, we may also choose to develop our own sales and marketing capability to launch our products in the United States, which could increase the cost to commercialize our products.” We may not successfully develop and market our products, and even if we do, we may not become profitable. We currently have no products approved for marketing and sale and are conducting research and development on our product candidates. As a result, we have not begun to market or generate revenues from the commercialization of any of our products. Our long-term viability will be impaired if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully market, our product candidates. Even if we successfully develop and gain regulatory approval for our products, we still may not generate sufficient or sustainable revenues or we may not become profitable. In addition, even after making significant investments, pre-clinical or clinical studies may show that our products are not effective or safe for one or more of their intended uses. We may fail in the development and commercialization of our products. As of December 31, 2010, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $376.5 million and we expect to continue to incur significant, increasing operating losses over the next several years. To date, we have generated capital to support our activities primarily from equity financings, research grants, collaboration agreements, and investments. Our ability to operate our business and continue our activities is dependent on our ability to raise additional capital, to fund our research and development and commercial programs and meet our obligations on a timely basis. If we are unable to successfully raise sufficient additional capital, through strategic alliances and other financing alternatives, we will likely not have sufficient cash flow and liquidity to fund our business operations, forcing us to curtail our activities and, ultimately, potentially cease operations. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, such financings may only be available on unattractive terms, or could result in significant dilution of stockholders’ interests and, in such event, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, depending on conditions in the global financial markets, we may face significant challengers accessing the capital markets at a time when we would like or require, and an increased cost of capital. Except for our CEFFs (which are subject to certain limitations), we currently do not have arrangements to obtain additional financing. Any such financing could be difficult to obtain or only available on unattractive terms and could result in significant dilution of stockholders’ interests. In any such event, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business plan, financial performance and stock price and could delay new product development and clinical trial plans. 30 The regulatory approval process for our products is expensive and time-consuming and the outcome is uncertain. We may not obtain required regulatory approvals to commercialize our products. To test, make and sell our products under development, including Surfaxin, we must receive regulatory approvals for each product. The FDA and foreign regulators, such as the EMEA, extensively and rigorously regulate the testing, manufacture, distribution, advertising, pricing and marketing of drug products. This approval process includes (i) preclinical studies and clinical trials of each drug product candidate and active pharmaceutical ingredient to establish its safety and effectiveness, and (ii) confirmation by the FDA and foreign regulators that we maintain good laboratory and manufacturing practices during testing and manufacturing. Even if favorable data are generated by clinical trials, the FDA or foreign regulator may not accept or approve an NDA or MAA filed for a drug product on a timely basis or at all. See, “Item 1 – Business – Government Regulation.” In particular, we filed with the FDA an NDA for Surfaxin for the prevention of RDS in premature infants. In April 2009, we received a Complete Response Letter for this NDA. We have interacted with the FDA on multiple occasions to discuss and clarify proposals to resolve a key remaining issue that relates to the ability of our optimized BAT to adequately reflect the biological activity of Surfaxin throughout its shelf life and to discriminate biologically active from inactive Surfaxin drug product. We are currently conducting a comprehensive preclinical program that consists of a series of prospectively-designed, side-by-side preclinical studies employing the optimized BAT and the well-established preterm lamb model of RDS. The FDA indicated that to gain approval of Surfaxin, data generated from the preterm lamb model and BAT studies must demonstrate, in a point-to-point analysis, the same relative changes in respiratory compliance between both models over time. These studies are intended to demonstrate comparability of drug product used in the Phase 3 clinical program with Surfaxin drug product to be manufactured for commercial use, and will also be used to gain the FDA’s agreement on final acceptance criteria, with respect to biological activity as assessed by the BAT, for release and ongoing stability of Surfaxin drug product. See, “Item 1 – Business – Surfactant Replacement Therapy for Respiratory Medicine – Respiratory Distress Syndrome in Premature Infants (RDS) – Surfaxin for the Prevention of RDS in Premature Infants.” Even if we believe that our side-by-side studies are successful, the FDA may not accept the results or may interpret the data in a different manner such that, ultimately, the FDA may not approve Surfaxin for RDS in premature infants. Any failure to secure FDA approval or further delay associated with the FDA’s review process with respect to Surfaxin could potentially delay or prevent the approval of our other products and would have a material adverse effect on our business. Even assuming that we gain regulatory approval to market our drugs, if the FDA and foreign regulators later withdraw their approval or otherwise restrict marketing, our business would be materially harmed. The FDA and foreign regulators have not yet approved any of our products under development for marketing in the United States or elsewhere. Without regulatory approval, we will not be able to market our products. Even if we were to succeed in gaining regulatory approvals for any of our products, the FDA or a foreign regulator could at any time withdraw any approvals granted if there is a later discovery of previously unidentified problems or if we fail to comply with other applicable regulatory requirements at any stage in the regulatory process, or the FDA or a foreign regulator may restrict or delay our marketing of a product, including by requiring us to include warnings and other restrictions in the package inserts for our products, or force us to make product recalls. In addition, the FDA could impose other sanctions such as fines, injunctions, civil penalties or criminal prosecutions. Any withdrawal of our regulatory approval or significant restriction on our ability to market our products after approval would have a material adverse effect on our business. The 2009 Complete Response Letter and the resulting delay in our gaining approval of Surfaxin has caused us to make fundamental changes in our business strategy and to take steps to conserve our financial resources, which may expose us to unanticipated risks and uncertainties. We plan to continue assessing our regulatory position and available resources and may implement at any time additional and potentially significant changes to our business strategy, development programs and our operations, which, if adopted, could prove to be disruptive and detrimental to our development programs. Prior to receipt of the 2009 Complete Response Letter, we were planning on establishing our own commercialization organization. To conserve cash resources following receipt of the 2009 Complete Response Letter, we implemented cost-containment measures and reduced our workforce, which primarily affected our commercial organization. 31 The delay in our gaining approval of Surfaxin also caused us to evaluate our business strategy and implement fundamental changes. To secure capital and to develop and, if approved, commercialize our KL4 surfactant drug products, we have since focused on identifying potential strategic alliances, development agreements or other collaboration arrangements to develop and commercialize our products in all markets. We have also considered various other financial alternatives that could potentially provide infusions of capital and other resources needed to advance our KL4 respiratory pipeline programs, meet our capital requirements and continue our operations. Although we continue to consider potential opportunities, there can be no assurance that any strategic alliance or other financing alternatives will be successfully concluded. We plan to continue assessing our regulatory position and available resources with a view to maintaining and strengthening our financial and operational position and, as a result, may implement at any time additional and potentially significant changes to our business strategy, development programs and our operations. Such changes, if adopted, could prove to be disruptive and detrimental to our development programs. Moreover, consideration and planning of such strategic changes diverts management’s attention and other resources from day-to-day operations, which may subject us to further risks and uncertainties. If we succeed in entering into one or more strategic alliances, our ability to execute our current operating plan will depend upon numerous factors, including, the performance of the strategic partners and collaborators with whom we may contract. Under these arrangements, our partners may control key decisions relating to the development, and assuming approval, commercialization, of our products. Such rights of our partners would limit our flexibility in considering development strategies and in commercializing our products. In addition, if we breach or terminate our strategic alliance agreements or if our strategic partners otherwise fail to conduct their activities in a timely manner, or if there is a dispute about our respective obligations, we may need to seek other partners or, in the alternative and after a potentially unacceptable delay, develop our own internal sales and marketing capabilities to commercialize our products in the United States. If we fail to successfully develop these relationships, or if we or our partners fail to successfully develop or commercialize any of our products, it may delay or prevent us from developing or commercializing our products in a competitive and timely manner and would have a material adverse effect on the commercialization of our products. For example, our collaboration arrangement with Esteve for Surfaxin and certain other of our drug product candidates is focused on key southern European markets. If we or Esteve should fail to conduct our respective collaboration-related activities in a timely manner, or otherwise breach or terminate the agreements that make up our collaboration arrangements, or if a dispute should arise under our collaboration arrangements, such events could impair our ability to commercialize or develop our products for the Esteve territory in Europe. In that event, we may need to seek other partners and collaboration arrangement, or we may have to develop our own internal capabilities to market the covered products in the Esteve territory without a collaboration arrangement. As we continue to manage our cash resources and work to secure additional capital while we continue our efforts to potentially gain approval of Surfaxin the United States, we have limited our level of investment in, and have slowed the pace of, our research and development programs to address RDS, including for Surfaxin LS and Aerosurf. Such reductions in investment will cause us to experience delays in the progress of our programs and will lengthen the time to potentially gain approval of our product candidates. Even though some of our product candidates have qualified for expedited review, the FDA may not approve them at all or any sooner than other product candidates that do not qualify for expedited review. The FDA has notified us that two indications of our KL4 surfactant technology pipeline, BPD in premature infants and ARDS in adults, have been granted designation as “Fast Track” products under provisions of the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997. We believe that other potential products in our KL4 surfactant technology pipeline may also qualify for Fast Track designation. Fast Track designation does not accelerate clinical trials nor does it mean that the regulatory requirements are less stringent. Our products may cease to qualify for expedited review and our other product candidates may fail to qualify for Fast Track designation or expedited review. Moreover, even if we are successful in gaining Fast Track designation, other factors could result in significant delays in our development activities with respect to our Fast Track products. 32 Our research and development activities involve significant risks and uncertainties that are inherent in the clinical development and regulatory approval processes. Development risk factors include, but are not limited to, whether we, or our third-party collaborators, drug substances and materials suppliers and third-party contract manufacturers, will be able to: · complete our pre-clinical and clinical trials of our KL4 surfactant product candidates with scientific results that are sufficient to support further development and regulatory approval; · receive the necessary regulatory approvals; · obtain adequate supplies of surfactant active drug substances, manufactured to our specifications and on commercially reasonable terms; · perform under agreements to supply drug substances, medical device components and related services necessary to manufacture our KL4 surfactant product candidates, including Surfaxin, Surfaxin LS and Aerosurf; · resolve to the FDA’s satisfaction the matters identified in the 2009 Complete Response Letter for Surfaxin for the prevention of RDS in premature infants; · provide for sufficient manufacturing capabilities, at our manufacturing operations in Totowa and with third-party contract manufacturers, to produce sufficient drug product, including Surfaxin, Surfaxin LS and capillary aerosolization systems and related materials to meet our pre-clinical and clinical development requirements; · obtain the capital necessary to fund our research and development efforts, including our business administration, preclinical and clinical organizations, and our quality and manufacturing operations. Because these factors, many of which are outside our control, could have a potentially significant impact on our development activities, the success, timing of completion and ultimate cost of development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain and cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty. The timing and cost to complete drug trials alone may be impacted by, among other things: · slow patient enrollment; · long treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness; · lack of sufficient clinical supplies and material; · adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; · lack of compatibility with complementary technologies; · failure of a drug product candidate to demonstrate effectiveness; and · lack of sufficient funds. If we do not successfully complete clinical trials, we will not receive regulatory approval to market our KL4 surfactant products. Failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approval and generate revenues from the sale of our products would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and likely reduce the market value of our common stock. Our clinical trials may be delayed, or fail, which will harm our business. We have completed our Phase 3 clinical trials for Surfaxin for the prevention of RDS in premature infants and certain Phase 2 trials for other drug product candidates for other indications. If we successfully advance our other KL4 surfactant development programs through the initial preclinical phase of development, we plan to conduct Phase 2 and/or Phase 3 clinical trials after we have secured adequate capital to support that activity. Such clinical trials generally take two to five years or more to complete and may be delayed by a number of factors. We may not reach agreement with the FDA or a foreign regulator on the design of any one or more of the clinical studies necessary for approval. Conditions imposed by the FDA and foreign regulators on our clinical trials could significantly increase the time required for completion of such clinical trials and the costs of conducting the clinical trials. Like many biotechnology companies, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials or in preliminary findings for such clinical trials, we may suffer significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may be unable to enroll patients quickly enough to meet our expectations for completing any or all of these trials. The timing and completion of current and planned clinical trials of our product candidates depend on many factors, including the rate at which patients are enrolled. Delays in patient enrollment in clinical trials may occur, which would be likely to result in increased costs, program delays, or both. 33 Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: · the number of clinical sites; · the size of the patient population; · the proximity of patients to the clinical sites; · the eligibility and enrollment criteria for the study; · the willingness of patients or their parents or guardians to participate in the clinical trial; · the existence of competing clinical trials; · the existence of alternative available products; and · geographical and geopolitical considerations. If we succeed in achieving our patient enrollment targets, patients that enroll in our clinical trials could suffer adverse medical events or side effects that are known, such as a decrease in the oxygen level of the blood upon administration, or currently unknown to us. It is also possible that we, our Scientific Advisory Board (SAB), the trial Safety Monitoring Committee (SMC), the FDA or foreign regulators could interrupt, delay or halt any one or more of our clinical trials for any of our product candidates. If we, our SAB, the SMC or any regulator believe that trial participants face unacceptable health risks, any one or more of our trials could be suspended or terminated. In addition, clinical trials may be interrupted, delayed or halted, in whole or in part, for reasons other than health and safety concerns, including, among other things, matters related to the design of the study, drug availability, SAB and/or SMC recommendation, or business reasons. In addition to our efforts to gain approval of Surfaxin for the prevention of RDS in premature infants, we have completed a Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate the use of Surfaxin in children up to two years of age suffering from Acute Respiratory Failure and our aerosolized KL4 surfactant was the subject of an investigator-initiated Phase 2a trial assessing the safety, tolerability and short-term effectiveness of aerosolized KL4 surfactant in patients with CF. We are also planning to initiate clinical studies in support of other products in our KL4 surfactant technology pipeline. All of these clinical trials will be time-consuming and potentially costly. Should we fail to complete our clinical development programs or should such programs yield unacceptable results, such failures would have a material adverse effect on our business. Manufacturing problems potentially could cause us to delay preclinical or clinical programs, or, if our products are approved, product launch, or cause us to experience shortages of product inventories, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. We, our contract manufacturers or our materials and drug substances suppliers may experience manufacturing or quality control problems that could result in a failure to maintain compliance with the FDA’s cGMP requirements, or those of foreign regulators, which is necessary to continue manufacturing our drug products, materials or drug substances. Other problems that may be encountered include: · the need to make necessary modifications to qualify and validate a facility; · difficulties with production and yields, including manufacturing and completing all required release testing on a timely basis to meet demand; · availability of raw materials and supplies; · quality control and assurance; · casualty damage to a facility; and · shortages of qualified personnel. 34 Such a failure could result in product production and shipment delays or an inability to obtain materials or drug substance supplies. For example, we manufacture our Surfaxin drug product at our facility in Totowa, New Jersey. In December 2010, we began manufacturing additional Surfaxin batches for use in the comprehensive preclinical program. As a result, we now have seven Surfaxin batches that can be used for this purpose. We routinely employ an array of quality control and release tests to assess all of the batches we produce. In January 2011, quality control testing performed by us indicated that two other newly-manufactured Surfaxin batches did not meet one of the pre-specified release specifications and, therefore, cannot be used in the comprehensive preclinical program. We are continuing to manufacture additional Surfaxin batches to support the Complete Response and, at the same time, in accordance with our quality assurance procedures and pharmaceutical manufacturing practices, we are conducting an investigation into the manufacture of the Surfaxin batches that did not meet specification to determine the probable cause. We currently plan to manufacture three additional Surfaxin batches for the comprehensive preclinical program. If successful, we believe that we could file a Complete Response in the third quarter of 2011, which, after an anticipated six-month FDA review cycle, could lead to potential Surfaxin approval in the first quarter of 2012. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete the manufacture of the requisite number of batches as planned or that other batches that we manufacture will not fail to meet all release or stability specifications. There can also be no assurance that our ongoing investigation will establish a probable cause for the two batches that did not meet a release specification. Furthermore, to manufacture the requisite number of Surfaxin batches needed to complete the comprehensive preclinical program, we may have to purchase additional supplies of drug product substances and excipients, which could involve order lead times and acceptance testing activities and result in further delays. If any of the current or additional batches that we plan to manufacture for use in the comprehensive preclinical program do not meet all release and stability specifications, we will have to initiate additional investigations to determine the probable cause of any such failures, which could have a material, adverse effect on our ability to gain regulatory approval of Surfaxin. Failure to complete the manufacture of a sufficient number of batches to potentially satisfy the FDA could result in further delays of the filing of our Complete Response, which would have an material adverse effect on our business. Manufacturing or quality control problems may again occur at our facility in Totowa, New Jersey, or may occur at the facilities of a contract manufacturer of our drug substances and materials suppliers. Such problems may require potentially complex, time-consuming and costly comprehensive investigations to determine the root causes of such problems and may also require detailed and time-consuming remediation efforts, which can further delay a return to normal manufacturing and production activities. Any failure by our own manufacturing operations or by the manufacturing operations of any of our suppliers to comply with cGMP requirements or other FDA or similar foreign regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our drug products, which in turn would adversely affect our clinical research activities and our ability to develop and gain regulatory approval to market our drug products. We currently do not have a back-up facility. Any interruption of our manufacturing operations at Totowa, NJ, could result in a shortage of drug supply for use in preclinical and clinical activities and, if approved, to satisfy commercial requirements for Surfaxin. A number of factors could cause interruptions, including: · equipment malfunctions or failures; · technology malfunctions; · work stoppages or slowdowns; · damage to or destruction of the facility; · regional power shortages; and · product tampering. 35 In connection with our manufacturing activities, we own certain specialized manufacturing equipment, employ experienced manufacturing senior executive and managerial personnel, and continue to invest in enhanced quality systems and manufacturing capabilities. However, we do not have fully-redundant systems and equipment to respond promptly in the event of a significant loss at our manufacturing operations. We may under certain conditions be unable to produce Surfaxin and our other KL4 surfactant product candidates at the required volumes or to appropriate standards, if at all. If we are unable to successfully develop and maintain our manufacturing capabilities and at all times comply with cGMP, it will adversely affect our clinical development activities and, potentially, the sales of our products, if approved. If the parties we depend on for supplying our active drug substances, materials and excipients as well as manufacturing-related services do not timely supply these products and services, it may delay or impair our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. We rely on suppliers for our active drug substances, materials and excipients, and third parties for certain manufacturing-related services to manufacture drug product that meets appropriate content, quality and stability standards for use in preclinical programs and clinical trials and, if approved, for commercial distribution. Our ability to manufacture depends upon receiving adequate supplies and related services, which may be difficult or uneconomical to procure. The manufacturing process for Aerosurf, a combination drug-device product, includes the integration of a number of component parts, many of which are comprised of a large number of subcomponent parts that we expect we will purchase from a potentially large number of manufacturers. We and our suppliers may not be able to (i) produce our drug substances, or manufacture materials and excipients or our drug product, or capillary aerosolization systems subcomponent parts or integrated devices, to appropriate standards for use in our preclinical programs or clinical studies, (ii) comply with manufacturing specifications under any definitive manufacturing, supply or services agreements with us, or (iii) maintain relationships with our suppliers and service providers for a sufficient time to successfully produce and market our product candidates. In some cases, we are dependent upon a single supplier to provide all of our requirements for one or more of our drug substances, materials and excipients or one or more of our drug product device subcomponents, components and subassemblies. To assure compliance with cGMP requirements, we have entered into Quality Agreements with all of our suppliers of active drug substances and related materials. However, we have a requirements contract relating to continued access to active drug substances with only one of three providers of our drug substances. If we do not maintain manufacturing and service relationships that are important to us and are not able to identify a replacement supplier or vendor or develop our own manufacturing capabilities, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our products could be impaired or delayed and our costs could substantially increase. Even if we are able to find replacement manufacturers, suppliers and vendors when needed, we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on terms and conditions favorable to us or there could be a substantial delay before such manufacturer, vendor or supplier, or a related new facility is properly qualified and registered with the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our development activities and our business. Failure to develop our capillary aerosolization technology, patient interface technology and related componentry in a timely manner, if at all, would have a material adverse effect on our efforts to develop aerosolized KL4 surfactant and our business strategy. Since early 2008, we have been responsible for development of our proprietary capillary aerosolization technology, including finalizing the design of an optimized capillary aerosolization device and disposable dose packets that are suitable for use in our planned Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials. Our development activities are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: · We may not successfully develop an optimized prototype capillary aerosolization system that is suitable for use in a clinical environment, if at all, on a timely basis and such inability may delay or prevent initiation of our planned clinical trials. · We will require access to sophisticated engineering capabilities. Our plans include our medical device engineering staff working with leading medical device development engineers and medical device design experts that have a successful track record of developing innovative devices for the medical and pharmaceutical industries. If we are unable to identify design engineers and medical device experts to support our development efforts, including for the optimized prototype capillary aerosolization system for use in our planned clinical trials and, potentially, for later development versions of the capillary aerosolization systems, it would impair our ability to commercialize or develop our aerosolized KL4 surfactant products. 36 · We will also require additional capital to advance our development activities and plan to seek a potential strategic partner or third-party collaborator to provide financial support and potentially the necessary medical device development expertise. There can be no assurance, however, that we will successfully identify or be able to enter into agreements with such potential partners or collaborators on terms and conditions that are favorable to us. If we are unable to secure the necessary medical device development expertise to support our development program, this could impair our ability to commercialize or develop our aerosolized KL4 surfactant. The realization of any of the foregoing risks would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to identify or maintain relationships with manufacturers, assemblers and integrator of our capillary aerosolization systems or subcomponents, the timeline of our plans for the development and, if approved, commercialization of our aerosolized KL4 surfactant, including Aerosurf, could suffer. In connection with the development of our aerosolized KL4 surfactant, including Aerosurf, which is a drug/device combination product, we currently plan to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture and assemble the subcomponents of our capillary aerosolization technology and to assemble and integrate the component parts to support our preclinical experiments, planned clinical studies and potential commercialization of Aerosurf. Certain of these components must be manufactured in an environmentally-controlled area and, when assembled, the critical drug product-contact components and patient interface systems must be packaged and sterilized. Each of the aerosolization system devices must be quality-control tested prior to release and monitored for conformance to designated product specification. We have worked with selected component manufacturers and an integrator to manufacture and integrate our initial prototype capillary aerosolization system. We are currently focused on developing an optimized capillary aerosolization device to meet regulatory and ease-of-use design requirements for Aerosurf and prepare for potential Phase 2 clinical trials. However, as with many device development initiatives, there is a risk that we will not be successful in our development efforts and that the manufacturers and integrator that we identify may not be able to consistently manufacture and integrate, if at all, the subcomponents of our capillary aerosolization systems to our specified standards. In addition, we may not be able to identify qualified additional or replacement manufacturers and integrators to manufacture subcomponents and integrate our optimized capillary aerosolization system and, if developed, later versions of our capillary aerosolization systems, or we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on terms and conditions favorable and acceptable to us. In addition, the manufacturers and assemblers and integrators that we identify may be unable to timely comply with FDA, or other foreign regulatory agency, regulatory manufacturing requirements. If we do not successfully identify and enter into contractual agreements with manufacturers, assemblers and integrators that have the required expertise to produce our capillary aerosolization systems as and when needed, it will adversely affect our timeline for the development and, if approved, commercialization of our aerosolized KL4 surfactant, including Aerosurf. We currently have limited expertise in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products and limited marketing capabilities, which may restrict our success in commercializing our product candidates. To launch our drug product candidates, if approved, we plan to seek third-party distribution arrangements and marketing alliances, which could require us to give up rights to our drug product candidates. As we continue to assess our business and regulatory position, we may also choose to develop our own sales and marketing capability to launch our products in the United States, which could increase the cost to commercialize our products. We have limited experience in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products and have limited marketing capabilities. Following receipt of the 2009 Complete Response Letter, we assessed our regulatory and financial position and determined that it would be in our best interest to seek to commercialize our drug product candidates, if approved, through one or more strategic alliances rather than through our own commercial organization. Such alliances could take a number of forms. We may rely on third-party distributors to distribute, or enter into marketing alliances to sell, our products internationally and potentially also in the United States. We may not be successful in identifying such third parties or finalizing such arrangements on terms and conditions that are favorable to us and, as a result, we may not be able to commercialize our drug product candidates on a timely basis. If we enter into distribution arrangements and marketing alliances to commercialize our drug product candidates, such arrangements will subject us to a number of risks, including: 37 · our distributors or collaborators may require that we transfer to them important rights to our products and/or drug product candidates; · we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our distributors or collaborators devote to the commercialization of our drug product candidates; · if our distributors or collaborators fail to perform their obligations under our arrangements to our satisfaction, we may not achieve our projected sales and our revenues would suffer. We also may incur additional expense to terminate such arrangements and to identify and enter into arrangements with replacement distributors or collaborators; · our distributors or collaborators may experience financial difficulties; and · business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to perform its obligations under any arrangement, which would adversely affect our business. If we fail to enter into arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or if such parties fail to perform, it could adversely affect sales of our products. We and our third-party distributors and collaborators must also market our products in compliance with federal, state and local laws related to providing incentives and inducements. Violation of these laws can result in substantial penalties. If we do not identify third-party distributors, marketing alliances or other arrangements that have terms that are acceptable to us, or if we determine that our business would be better served by retaining the marketing rights to our products and drug product candidates, we may commercialize our drug product candidates ourselves. This approach would likely cause our commercialization costs to increase, but would potentially avoid the transfer of rights to our products or drug product candidates. Developing an internal marketing and sales capability is potentially a difficult, expensive and time-consuming process and requires a substantial capital investment. Recruiting, training and retaining qualified personnel would be critical to our success. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may be unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals to successfully support the launch and continued distribution of our products. We also may be unable to provide competitive incentive to retain our sales force. If we are unable to successfully attract and motivate a commercial team to support the launch and sale of our products, we would have difficulty selling, maintaining and increasing the sales of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we develop an internal commercial organization to support the launch of Surfaxin in the United States, we may also need to enter into co-promotion arrangements with third parties where our own personnel are neither well situated nor large enough to achieve maximum penetration in the market. We may not be successful in entering into any co-promotion arrangements, and the terms of any co-promotion arrangements may not be favorable to us. In addition, if we enter into co-promotion arrangements or market and sell additional products directly, we may need to further expand our commercial staff and incur additional expense. We plan to market and sell Surfaxin, if approved, in international markets and potentially in the United States through one or more strategic partners or other collaborators. We currently have such an alliance with Esteve for distribution of our KL4 surfactant products in Andorra, Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain. We have limited influence over the decisions made by Esteve or its sublicensees or the resources that they may devote to the marketing and distribution of Surfaxin products in their licensed territory, and Esteve or its sublicensees may not meet their obligations in this regard. Our marketing and distribution arrangement with Esteve may not be successful, and, as a result, we may not receive any revenues from it. Also, we may not be able to enter into marketing and sales agreements for Surfaxin on acceptable terms, if at all, in territories not covered by the Esteve agreement, or for any of our other drug product candidates. If we fail to establish or secure marketing and sales capabilities or fail to enter into arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or if such third parties fail to perform, it could adversely affect sales of our products. In addition, even if we establish or secure such capabilities, we and any of our third-party collaborators must also market our products in compliance with federal, state and local laws relating to the restrictions on incentives and inducements. Violation of these laws can result in substantial penalties. If we are unable to successfully motivate and expand our marketing and sales force and further develop our sales and marketing capabilities, or if our distributors fail to promote our products, we will have difficulty maintaining and increasing the sales of our products. 38 The commercial success of our product candidates will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payers and others in the medical community. Any potential products that we bring to market may not gain or maintain market acceptance by governmental purchasers, group purchasing organizations, physicians, patients, healthcare payers and others in the medical community. If any products that we develop do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate sufficient revenues to support continued commercialization of these products. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: · the perceived safety and efficacy of our products; · the potential advantages over alternative treatments; · the prevalence and severity of any side effects; · the relative convenience and ease of administration; · cost effectiveness; · the willingness of the target patient population to try new products and of physicians to prescribe our products; · the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and distribution support; and · the sufficiency of coverage or reimbursement by third parties. If we do not adequately forecast customer demand for our product candidates, including Surfaxin, if approved, our business could suffer. The timing and amount of customer demand and the commercial requirements to meet changing customer demand are difficult to predict. If we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of our products, we may not be able to accurately forecast customer demand for our drug product candidates, including Surfaxin, or respond effectively to unanticipated increases in demand. This could have an adverse effect on our business. If we overestimate customer demand, or attempt to commercialize products for which the market is smaller than we anticipate, we could incur significant unrecoverable costs from creating excess capacity. We will require significant additional capital to continue our planned research and development activities and continue to operate as a going concern. Moreover, such additional financing could result in equity dilution. Until such time as we are able to commercialize any of our lead products, if approved, and generate revenues, we will need substantial additional funding to support our ongoing research and development activities and continue to operate as a going concern. In addition to focusing our resources on potentially gaining approval of Surfaxin, our current plans require that we make prudent investments in our lead drug product and device development programs, Surfaxin LS and Aerosurf, and focus our resources on being in a position to initiate key clinical programs after we have secured the necessary capital to advance these programs to potential approval. We would prefer to accomplish our objectives through strategic alliances and collaboration arrangements. If we are unable to raise substantial additional funds through strategic alliances or other alternatives, including potentially future debt and equity financings, we may be forced to further limit investments in our development programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the meantime, as we continue to conserve our financial resources, we will likely experience additional delays in our development programs. 39 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which will likely result in significant legal and accounting expense and diversion of management resources, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and the market price of our stock will likely decline. We are required by the SEC to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls. In our internal control report for our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, management was unable to conclude that we had maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2010, and identified a material weakness regarding our process and procedures related to the initial classification and subsequent accounting of registered warrants as liabilities or equity instruments. Upon a reassessment of those financial instruments, in light of GAAP as currently interpreted, we determined that we should have accounted for registered warrants that we issued in May 2009 and February 2010 as derivative liabilities instead of equity. As a result, to reclassify the affected warrants as derivative liabilities, in November 2010, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the periods ended beginning June 30, 2009 through June 30, 2010. The process to restate our financial statements was highly time-consuming, resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant legal and accounting expense. To remediate the identified material weakness in our internal controls, we have enhanced our process to identify and correctly apply developments in accounting and to improve our understanding of the nuances of increasingly complex accounting standards. We have improved access to the accounting literature, research materials and documents and increased communication among our legal and finance personnel and third party professionals with whom we consult regarding complex accounting applications. Any failure to maintain internal controls could adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and Nasdaq, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, there could result a material adverse effect on our business. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that additional material weaknesses or restatements of financial results will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. In addition, although we believe that we have remediated the material weakness that we identified in November 2010, in the future our controls and procedures may no longer be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements. Responding to inquiries from the SEC or Nasdaq in the future will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our management resources and cause us to incur significant legal and accounting expense. Further, many companies that have restated their historical financial statements have experienced a decline in stock price and related stockholder lawsuits. Our Committed Equity Financing Facilities may become unavailable to us if we do not comply with their conditions. Except for our CEFFs (which are subject to certain limitations), we currently do not have arrangements to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to meet the conditions provided under the CEFFs, we will not be able to issue any portion of the shares potentially available for issuance under the CEFFs to fund our activities and the CEFFs may expire. For example, as of December 31, 2010, we had three CEFFs that were potentially available to us. However, in February 2011, the December 2008 CEFF expired without having been fully utilized. In addition, as we agreed in connection with our February 2011 offering that we would not issue or sell (with certain limited exceptions) securities for a period of 90 days ending in May 2011, we will have a limited time to initiate draw downs under the May 2008 CEFF before it expires on June 18, 2011. Moreover, Kingsbridge has the right under certain circumstances to terminate the CEFFs, including in the event of a material adverse event. In addition, even if we meet all the conditions provided under the CEFFs, we are dependent upon the financial ability of Kingsbridge to perform its obligations and purchase shares of our common stock under the CEFFs. Any inability on our part to use at least one of the CEFFs or any failure by Kingsbridge to perform its obligations under the CEFFs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our activities. 40 In addition, our ability to draw down under any new CEFF in the future may be impaired. In February 2011, we issued five-year warrants that contain anti-dilution provisions that potentially adjust the exercise price of these warrants upon the issuance of securities at prices lower than the warrant exercise price. The warrant anti-dilution provisions are not triggered by draw downs under our existing CEFFs but would be triggered by draw downs under any new CEFF. In that event, the potential dilutive effect of a draw down under a future CEFF could be increased if the discounted purchase price of such draw down is less than the exercise price of the warrants, which could result in a decline in the market price of our stock. If our current CEFFs should become unavailable, due to expiration or for any reason, if we are unable to successfully raise sufficient additional capital through a new CEFF, strategic alliances and other financing alternatives, we will likely not have sufficient cash flow and liquidity to fund our business operations, forcing us to curtail our activities and, ultimately, potentially cease operations. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, such financings may only be available on unattractive terms, or could result in significant dilution of stockholders’ interests and, in that event, the market price of our common stock may decline further. The market price of our stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our common stock, like that of many other development stage pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, has been and is likely to be volatile. In addition to general economic, political and market conditions, the price and trading volume of our stock could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: · announcements of the results of clinical trials by us or our competitors; · patient adverse reactions to drug products; · governmental approvals, delays in expected governmental approvals or withdrawals of any prior governmental approvals or public or regulatory agency concerns regarding the safety or effectiveness of our products; · changes in the United States or foreign regulatory policy during the period of product development; · changes in the United States or foreign political environment and the passage of laws, including tax, environmental or other laws, affecting the product development business; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including any third party challenges of our intellectual property rights; · announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; · announcements of new products or new contracts by us or our competitors; · actual or anticipated variations in our operating results due to the level of development expenses and other factors; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our earnings meet or exceed the estimates; · conditions and trends in the pharmaceutical and other industries; · new accounting standards; and · the occurrence of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other public filings. Our common stock is listed for quotation on The Nasdaq Capital Market. During the twelve month period ended December 31, 2010, the price of our common stock, adjusted for the 1-for-15 reverse stock split that was made effective on December 28, 2010, ranged between $2.52 and $12.58. We expect the price of our common stock to remain volatile. The average daily trading volume in our common stock varies significantly. For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2010, the average daily trading volume in our common stock, adjusted for the 1-for-15 reverse stock split, was approximately 175,455 shares, and the average number of transactions per day, adjusted for the 1-for-15 reverse stock split, was approximately 2,465. The instability observed in our daily volume and number of transactions per day may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares in the public market at prevailing prices. 41 In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of the securities of companies in our industry, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies in our industry. Even if securities class actions that may be filed against us in the future are ultimately determined to be meritless or unsuccessful, they would involve substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could negatively impact our business. If we fail to adhere to the strict listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market®, we may be subject to delisting. As a result, our stock price may decline and, following a hearing, our common stock may be delisted. If our stock were no longer listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the liquidity of our securities likely would be impaired. Our common stock currently trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol DSCO. If we fail to adhere to the market’s strict listing criteria, our stock may be delisted. This could potentially impair the liquidity of our securities not only in the number of shares that could be bought and sold at a given price, which might be depressed by the relative illiquidity, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and the potential reduction in media coverage. As a result, an investor might find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock. We believe that current and prospective investors would view an investment in our common stock more favorably if it continues to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In December 2009, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Global Market® (Global Market) indicating that we had failed to comply with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) (Minimum Bid Price Rule), which requires that we maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. Under the Nasdaq Listing Rules, to avoid delisting, the closing bid price of our stock had to rise above $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days during the 180 calendar days following the date of the notification, or prior to June 1, 2010. Anticipating that we would not regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule on or before June 1, 2010, in May 2010, we applied to transfer our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market, which was effective on June 4, 2010. Based on our ability to comply with all listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market other than the Minimum Bid Price Rule, Nasdaq also granted us an additional 180 days, or until November 29, 2010, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. On November 30, 2010, we received written notification from Nasdaq that our common stock was subject to delisting because we had not regained compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule within the 180-day period previously granted. We requested a hearing with a Nasdaq Hearing Panel, which stayed the delisting of our stock pending the Panel’s review. On December 28, 2010, we implemented a 1-for-15 reverse stock split, after which the closing market price of our stock was above $1.00. On January 11, 2011, following our hearing, the Nasdaq Hearing Panel determined that we had regained compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule because our common stock had maintained a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share over a period of 10 consecutive business. Currently, our common stock continues to comply with all Nasdaq Listing Requirements for the Nasdaq Capital Market. Although we have regained compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain continued compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule or the other listing requirements of Nasdaq. There can be no assurance that the closing bid price of our common stock will continue to trade above $1.00. Moreover, if trading activity in our common stock were to reduce the total market capitalization of our company, we may find it difficult to fund our activities, which would result in reductions in our stockholders’ equity. In addition to the Minimum Bid Price Rule, certain other Nasdaq continued listing requirements require that we maintain a market capitalization of at least $35 million or stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million. If we are unable to meet these requirements we would receive another delisting notice from the Nasdaq Capital Market for failure to comply with one or more of the continued listing requirements. 42 Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase our common stock, including pursuant to our CEFFs, stock incentive plans and upon the exercise of outstanding securities exercisable for shares of our common stock, could result in substantial additional dilution of our stockholders, cause our stock price to fall and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. We require significant additional capital to continue to execute our business plan and advance our research and development efforts. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the issuance of additional equity securities and through the exercise of outstanding warrants, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell shares of our common stock in one or more transactions at prices that may be at a discount to the then-current market value of our common stock and on such other terms and conditions as we may determine from time to time. Any such transaction could result in substantial dilution of our existing stockholders. If we sell shares of our common stock in more than one transaction, stockholders who purchase our common stock may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. Such sales could also cause a drop in the market price of our common stock. The issuance of shares of our common stock under the CEFFs has, and the issuance of shares upon exercise of the related warrants we issued to Kingsbridge will have, a dilutive impact on our other stockholders and the issuance, or even potential issuance, of such shares could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, if we access the CEFFs, we will issue shares of our common stock to Kingsbridge at a discount (from 4.38% to 17.5%, depending upon the market price) to the daily volume-weighted average price of our common stock on each trading day, which will further dilute the interests of other stockholders. See, “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Committed Equity Financing Facilities (CEFFs).” Furthermore, to the extent that Kingsbridge sells to third parties the shares of our common stock that we sell to Kingsbridge under the CEFFs, our stock price may decrease due to the additional selling pressure in the market. The perceived risk of dilution from sales of stock to or by Kingsbridge may cause holders of our common stock to sell their shares, or it may encourage short sales of our common stock or other similar transactions. This could contribute to a decline in the stock price of our common stock. We also filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC on Form S-3 (File No. 333-151654) on June 13, 2008 (which was declared effective shortly thereafter) for the proposed offering from time to time of up to $150 million of our securities, including common stock, preferred stock, varying forms of debt and warrant securities, or any combination of the foregoing. We have issued securities pursuant to this shelf registration statement on several prior occasions, and may do so again in the future in response to market conditions or other circumstances on terms and conditions that will be determined at such time. As of March 15, 2011, we had 24,115,151 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, approximately (i) 4.3 million shares of our common stock were reserved for potential issuance upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, (ii) 0.9 million shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans, and (iii) 58,018 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our 401(k) Plan. The exercise of stock options and other securities could cause our stockholders to experience substantial dilution. Moreover, holders of our stock options and warrants are likely to exercise them, if ever, at a time when we otherwise could obtain a price for the sale of our securities that is higher than the exercise price per security of the options or warrants. Such exercises, or the possibility of such exercises, may impede our efforts to obtain additional financing through the sale of additional securities or make such financing more costly. It may also reduce the price of our common stock. If, during the term of certain of our warrants, we declare or make any dividend or other distribution of our assets to holders of shares of our common stock, by way of return of capital or otherwise (including any distribution of cash, stock or other securities, property or options by way of a dividend, spin off, reclassification, corporate rearrangement or other similar transaction), then the exercise price of such warrants may adjust downward and the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants would increase. In addition, in February 2011, we issued five-year warrants that contain an anti-dilution provision that, subject to certain exclusions, potentially adjusts the exercise price of these warrants upon the issuance of securities at prices lower than the warrant exercise price. For the purpose of valuing securities that we may issue in the future in unit offerings, this anti-dilution provision values the warrant portion of a unit offering based on a Black Scholes pricing model. When such Black Scholes value is subtracted from the actual per-unit price of the offering, per-share value of the shares issued in such unit offering is decreased for the purposes of the anti-dilution provision. If we issue shares or units or warrants in a financing that triggers the anti-dilution provision of our February 2011 five-year warrants, the exercise price of the February 2011 five-year warrants will be lowered thereby, increasing the likelihood that such warrants would be exercised. As a result of such warrant adjustments, we may be required to issue more shares of common stock, or shares at lower prices, than previously anticipated, which could result in further dilution of our existing stockholders. 43 Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that you do not consider to be in your best interest. As of March 15, 2011, our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately thirteen percent (13%) of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. For the purpose of computing this amount, an affiliated entity includes any entity that is known to us to be the beneficial owner of more than five percent (5%) of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. Our technology platform is based solely on our proprietary KL4 surfactant technology, our novel capillary aerosolization technology, and our novel patient interface and related componentry. Our technology platform is based on the scientific rationale of using our KL4 surfactant technology, our capillary aerosolization technology and our novel patient interface and related componentry to treat life-threatening respiratory disorders and to serve as the foundation for the development of novel respiratory therapies and products. Our business is dependent upon the successful development and approval of our drug product candidates and our drug-device combination products based on these technologies. Any material problems with our technology platforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we cannot protect our intellectual property, other companies could use our technology in competitive products. Even if we obtain patents to protect our products, those patents may not be sufficiently broad or they may expire and others could then compete with us. We seek patent protection for our drug product candidates to prevent others from commercializing equivalent products in substantially less time and at substantially lower expense. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend in part on our ability and that of parties from whom we license technology to successfully obtain patents, defend our patents and otherwise prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights, including our trade secrets. The patent position of companies relying upon biotechnology is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. To date, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has not adopted a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents or the degree of protection that these types of patents afford. As a result, there are risks that we may not secure rights to products or processes that appear to be patentable. We and the parties licensing technologies to us, have filed various United States and foreign patent applications with respect to the products and technologies under our development, and the USPTO and foreign patent offices have issued patents with respect to our products and technologies. These patent applications include international applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future or those we may license from third parties may not result in the USPTO or foreign patent office issuing patents. In addition, if patent rights covering our products are not sufficiently broad, they may not provide us with sufficient proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products and technologies. Furthermore, even if the USPTO or foreign patent offices were to issue patents to us or our licensors, others may challenge the patents or circumvent the patents, or the patent office or the courts may invalidate the patents. Thus, any patents we own or license from or to third parties may not provide us any protection against competitors. 44 The patents that we hold also have a limited life. We have licensed a series of patents for our KL4 surfactant technology from Johnson & Johnson and its wholly-owned subsidiary Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation (Ortho Pharmaceutical), which are important, both individually and collectively, to our strategy of commercializing our KL4 surfactant products. These patents, which include important KL4 composition of matter claims and relevant European patents, began to expire in November 2009, and will expire on various dates ending in 2017 or, in some cases, possibly later. Of the patents that have expired, we have filed to extend our most important patent one year, with further extensions possible into 2014. For our aerosolized KL4 surfactant, we hold exclusive licenses in the United States and outside the United States to PMUSA’s capillary aerosolization technology for use with pulmonary surfactants for all respiratory diseases. Our exclusive license in the United States also extends to other (non-surfactant) drugs to treat a wide range of pediatric and adult respiratory indications in hospitals and other health care institutions. The capillary aerosolization technology patents expire on various dates beginning in May 2016 and ending in 2023, or, in some cases, possibly later. We have filed, and when possible and appropriate, will file, other patent applications with respect to our products and processes in the United States and in foreign countries. We may not be able to develop enhanced or additional products or processes that will be patentable under patent law and, if we do enhance or develop additional products that we believe are patentable, additional patents may not be issued to us. See also, “– If we cannot meet requirements under our license agreements, we could lose the rights to our products.” Intellectual property rights of third parties could limit our ability to develop and market our products. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability to operate our business without infringing the patents or violating the proprietary rights of others. In certain cases, the USPTO keeps United States patent applications confidential while the applications are pending. As a result, we cannot determine in advance what inventions third parties may claim in their pending patent applications. We may need to defend or enforce our patent and license rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others through legal proceedings, which would be costly, unpredictable and time consuming. Even in proceedings where the outcome is favorable to us, they would likely divert substantial resources, including management time, from our other activities. Moreover, any adverse determination could subject us to significant liability or require us to seek licenses that third parties might not grant to us or might only grant at rates that diminish or deplete the profitability of our products. An adverse determination could also require us to alter our products or processes or cease altogether any product sales or related research and development activities. If we cannot meet requirements under our license agreements, we could lose the rights to our products. We depend on licensing agreements with third parties to maintain the intellectual property rights to our products under development. Presently, we have licensed rights from Johnson & Johnson, Ortho Pharmaceutical, PMUSA and PMPSA. These agreements require us to make payments and satisfy performance obligations to maintain our rights under these licensing agreements. All of these agreements last either throughout the life of the patents or for a number of years after the first commercial sale of the relevant product. In addition, we are responsible for the cost of filing and prosecuting certain patent applications and maintaining certain issued patents licensed to us. If we do not meet our obligations under our license agreements in a timely manner, we could lose the rights to our proprietary technology. Finally, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies. Licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights might not be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 45 We rely on confidentiality agreements that could be breached and may be difficult to enforce. Although we take what we believe to be reasonable steps to protect our intellectual property, including the use of agreements relating to the non-disclosure of our confidential information to third parties, as well as agreements that provide for disclosure and assignment to us of all rights to the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions of our employees and consultants while we employ them, such agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce. We generally seek to enter into these types of agreements with consultants, advisors and research collaborators; however, to the extent that such parties apply or independently develop intellectual property in connection with any of our projects, disputes may arise concerning allocation of the related proprietary rights. Such disputes often involve significant expense and yield unpredictable results. In addition, we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors or others. Despite the protective measures we employ, we still face the risk that: · agreements may be breached; · agreements may not provide adequate remedies for the applicable type of breach; · our trade secrets or proprietary know-how may otherwise become known; · our competitors may independently develop similar technology; or · our competitors may independently discover our proprietary information and trade secrets. We depend upon key employees and consultants in a competitive market for skilled personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, it could adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products. We are highly dependent upon the members of our executive management team and our directors, as well as our scientific advisory board members, consultants and collaborating scientists. Many of these individuals have been involved with us for many years, have played integral roles in our progress and we believe that they continue to provide value to us. A loss of any of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on aspects of our business and clinical development and regulatory programs. W. Thomas Amick, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer joined our company on a full-time basis as Chief Executive Officer in October 2010. As of October 18, 2010, we entered into an executive employment agreement with Mr. Amick, which expires in October 2011 and contains an automatic one-year renewal at the end of each term, unless otherwise terminated by either party. As of December 31, 2010, we had employment agreements with four executive officers in addition to Mr. Amick, including: President and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; Chief Operating Officer; and Senior Vice President, Human Resources. These agreements provide for automatic one-year renewal at the end of each term, unless otherwise terminated by either party, and will expire in May 2012. In addition, in May 2010, we entered into retention agreements with five other officers under which each officer is provided certain severance benefits, based on title. The loss of services from any of our executives could significantly adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Further, we do not maintain key man life insurance. We expect that, once we have secured sufficient strategic and financial resources to support our operations, including the continuing development of our KL4 surfactant technology, we will seek to attract candidates to join our management and development teams, although there can be no assurances that we will be successful in that endeavor. Moreover, although our five senior executive officers have agreements that include non-competition covenants and provide for severance payments that are contingent upon the applicable employee’s refraining from competition with us, such noncompete provisions can be difficult and costly to monitor and enforce, such that we may not be successful in retaining these individuals and, if any should resign, in enforcing our noncompetition agreements with them. We may be unable to attract and retain necessary executive talent. Our industry generally seeks to attract and retain executive talent with compensation packages that include a significant equity component. At this time, however, we have only limited equity incentives available. Moreover, the equity incentives, including options and restricted stock, that we have issued are, for the most part, significantly devalued or out of the money and less likely to be exercisable in the future. We plan on seeking stockholder approval for additional authorizations to support the use of equity incentives in the future. However, there can be no assurance that our stockholders will approve such incentives and, even if our stockholders approve new equity incentives, that we will be able to attract and retain key executive talent in the interim period. 46 Our future success also will depend in part on the continued service of our key scientific and management personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. While we attempt to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel at all levels in our organization, many of our competitors have greater resources and more experience than we do, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel. We may experience intense competition for qualified personnel and the existence of non-competition agreements between prospective employees and their former employers may prevent us from hiring those individuals or subject us to lawsuits brought by their former employers. Our industry is highly competitive and we have less capital and resources than many of our competitors, which may give them an advantage in developing and marketing products similar to ours or make our products obsolete. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological innovation and evolving industry standards. We compete with numerous existing companies intensely in many ways. We intend to market our products under development for the treatment of diseases for which other technologies and treatments are rapidly developing and, consequently, we expect new companies to enter our industry and that competition in the industry will increase. Many of these companies have substantially greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial, technological, personnel and managerial resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in: · developing products; · undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals or products; and · manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA or foreign regulatory approval or commercializing products before us. If we commence commercial product sales, we will compete against companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities that may successfully develop and commercialize products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. As none of our products are approved, we currently have limited or no experience in these areas. In addition, developments by our competitors may render our drug product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We also face, and will continue to face, competition from colleges, universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations. These competitors frequently aggressively seek patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technology that they have developed. Some of these technologies may compete directly with the technologies that we are developing. These institutions will also compete with us in recruiting highly qualified scientific personnel. We expect that therapeutic developments in the areas in which we are active may occur at a rapid rate and that competition will intensify as advances in this field are made. As a result, we need to continue to devote substantial resources and efforts to research and development activities. Our business activities expose us to liability claims and the use of our products in clinical trials exposes us to product liability claims. If any such claims are brought against us, we may experience reduced demand for our products or damages that exceed our insurance coverage and we may incur substantial costs. Our business activities, including testing, manufacturing and, if approved, marketing our drug products and medical devices exposes us to liability risks. Using our drug product candidates or medical devices in clinical trials also may expose us to product liability claims. If any of our products are approved for commercial sale, the risk of product liability claims will be increased. Even if approved, our products may be subject to claims resulting from unintended effects that result in injury or death. In addition, we are subject to product liability claims involving our capillary aerosolization and other medical devices and alleged mechanical failures, design defects, or other safety issues that result in an unsafe condition leading to injury or death. Product liability claims alleging inadequate disclosure and warnings in our package inserts and medical device disclosures may also arise. 47 We presently carry general liability, excess liability, products liability and property insurance coverage in amounts that are customary for companies in our industry of comparable size and level of activity. However, our insurance policies contain various deductibles, limitations and exclusions from coverage, and in any event might not fully cover any potential claims. We may need to obtain additional product liability insurance coverage, including withy locally-authorized insurers licensed in countries where we conduct our clinical trials, before initiating clinical trials. We also expect to review and obtain additional product liability insurance coverage, if warranted, before commercializing any of our drug product candidates; however, such insurance is expensive and may not be available when we need it. In the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance, with acceptable limits and retentions, at an acceptable cost. Any product, general liability or product liability claim, even if such claim is within the limits of our insurance coverage or meritless and/or unsuccessful, could adversely affect the availability or cost of insurance generally and our cash available for other purposes, such as research and development. In addition, such claims could result in: · uninsured expenses related to defense or payment of substantial monetary awards to claimants; · a decrease in demand for our drug product candidates; · damage to our reputation; and · an inability to complete clinical trial programs or to commercialize our drug product candidates, if approved. Moreover, the existence of a product liability claim could affect the market price of our common stock. Our corporate compliance program cannot ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations affecting our activities in the jurisdictions in which we may sell our products, if approved, and a failure to comply with such regulations or prevail in litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. Many of our activities, including the research, development, manufacture, sale and marketing of our products, are subject to extensive laws and regulation, including without limitation, health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance policy and oversight program based upon what we understand to be current industry best practices, but we cannot assure you that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such investigations, actions or lawsuits are instituted against us, and if we are not successful in defending or disposing of them without liability, such investigations, actions or lawsuits could result in the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions and could otherwise have a significant impact on our business. We expect to face uncertainty over reimbursement and healthcare reform. In both the United States and other countries, sales of our products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, which include governmental health administration authorities, managed care providers and private health insurers. Third party payers increasingly challenge the price and examine the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Moreover, the current political environment in the United States and abroad may result in the passage of significant legislation that could, among other things, restructure the markets in which we operate and restrict pricing strategies of drug development companies. If, for example, price restrictions were placed on the distribution of our drugs, we may be forced to curtail development of our pipeline products and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we succeed in commercializing our drug products, uncertainties regarding health care policy, legislation and regulation, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in quantities or at prices that will enable us to achieve profitability. 48 To obtain reimbursement from a third party payer, it must determine that our drug product is a covered benefit under its health plan, which is likely to require a determination that our product is: · safe, effective and medically necessary; · appropriate for the specific patient; · cost-effective; and · neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining a determination that a product is a covered benefit may be a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data about our products to each payer. We may not be able to provide sufficient data to gain coverage. Even when a payer determines that a product is covered, the payer may impose limitations that preclude payment for some uses that are approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Cost-containment measures, if implemented to affect the coverage or reimbursement of our products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products profitably. Moreover, coverage does not imply that any product will be covered in all cases or that reimbursement will be available at a rate that would permit a health care provider to cover its costs of using our product. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, our Amended and Restated By-Laws, our Shareholder Rights Agreement and Delaware law could defer a change of our management and thereby discourage or delay offers to acquire us. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, our Amended and Restated By-Laws, our Shareholder Rights Agreement and Delaware law may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or for our stockholders to remove existing management, and might discourage a third party from offering to acquire us, even if a change in control or in management would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, allows us to issue shares of preferred stock without any vote or further action by our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, before the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, could issue large blocks of preferred stock. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Agreement, which under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of us without prior approval of our Board of Directors thereby discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the Shareholder Rights Agreement would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. The failure to prevail in litigation or the costs of litigation, including securities class action and patent claims, could harm our financial performance and business operations. We are potentially susceptible to litigation. For example, as a public company, we may be subject to claims asserting violations of securities laws. Even if such actions are found to be without merit, the potential impact of such actions, which generally seek unquantified damages and attorneys’ fees and expenses, is uncertain. There can be no assurance that an adverse result in any future proceeding would not have a potentially material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have from time to time been involved in disputes and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, including in connection with the conduct of clinical trials. Such claims, with or without merit, if not resolved, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. Although we believe such claims are unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, it is impossible to predict with certainty the eventual outcome of such claims and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any proceeding to which we may be a party. 49 In addition, as the USPTO keeps United States patent applications confidential in certain cases while the applications are pending, we cannot ensure that our products or methods do not infringe upon the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are applied for and issued, the risk increases that our patents or patent applications for our KL4 surfactant product candidates may give rise to a declaration of interference by the USPTO, or to administrative proceedings in foreign patent offices, or that our activities lead to claims of patent infringement by other companies, institutions or individuals. These entities or persons could bring legal proceedings against us seeking to invalidate our patents, obtain substantial damages or enjoin us from conducting research and development activities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 