1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in shares of Ballantyne’s common stock. Investing in Ballantyne’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risk factors actually occurs, Ballantyne’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of Ballantyne’s common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. Ballantyne may be unsuccessful in adapting to new or advancing technologies, such as digital cinema. The motion picture industry remains based on the use of film technology to deliver motion picture images to the public, despite the anticipated shift to digital images (digital cinema). The widespread adoption and use of digital cinema foreseen by many has still not occurred, with a worldwide market penetration of only approximately 600 digital systems currently installed. In addition to the companies who have installed these systems, there are several other companies using various types of digital technology actively involved in attempting to bring a complete digital solution to the market. Ballantyne believes it is in a position to participate in the digital cinema marketplace either through its relationship with NEC Solutions (America), Inc. or through other relationships with digital cinema providers. However, Ballantyne cannot assure that it will successfully or competitively advance its technology as might be required. In addition, the current relationship with NEC Solutions (America), Inc. is a non-exclusive distributorship agreement and as such gross margin percentages will typically be lower than the margin the Company currently experiences on its analog projectors. It is unclear at this time how this lower margin will affect the overall profitability of the Company in future years. Finally, Ballantyne’s agreement with NEC is not perpetual and could be terminated with 90 day advance written notice. If Ballantyne is unable to maintain its relationship with NEC, or otherwise take advantage of future digital cinema opportunities or respond to the new competitive pressures, the result could have a material adverse impact on Ballantyne’s business, financial condition and operating results. Ballantyne’s financial results and growth depend largely on the health of the theatre exhibition industry. During the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 92% of Ballantyne’s revenues resulted from sales to the theatre exhibition industry. From fiscal years 2000 to 2002, this industry experienced an unprecedented three-year decline as overly aggressive building of megaplexes led to increased competition, significant declines in revenues per screen and, eventually, to a lack of operating capital by exhibition companies. Several exhibition companies filed for federal bankruptcy protection. This resulted in Ballantyne’s revenues from continuing operations declining from $83.4 million in fiscal 1999 to $33.8 million in fiscal 2002. However, during 2003, industry conditions began to improve and sales to the industry increased. While the health of the theatre exhibition industry is improving, there are still risks in the industry which result in continued exposure to Ballantyne. This exposure is in the form of receivables from independent dealers who resell Ballantyne’s products and Ballantyne’s dependence on new theatre construction and screen growth. In many instances, Ballantyne sells theatre products through independent dealers who resell to the exhibitor. These dealers were negatively impacted by the past downturn in the industry and, while the exhibitors have recovered, the dealer network’s recovery has been slower. Because Ballantyne’s commercial motion picture projectors have an estimated useful life of approximately 20 years, Ballantyne’s net sales and profitability are primarily dependent upon growth in the number of motion picture screens and the renovation and replacement of commercial motion picture projection equipment in existing theatres. For the fiscal years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003, approximately 92%, 92% and 87%, respectively, of Ballantyne’s total net sales were derived from sales of its theatre 10 segment. Growth in the number of new motion picture screens may be adversely affected by the economy as a whole and recent trends toward industry consolidation. Both of these factors may also have an adverse effect on Ballantyne’s customer base. A lack of motion picture screen growth would have a material adverse effect on Ballantyne’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Ballantyne is substantially dependent upon significant customers who could cease purchasing its products at any time. The Company’s top ten customers accounted for approximately 48% of 2005 consolidated net revenues. The top ten customers were primarily from the theatre segment. Trade accounts receivable from these customers represented approximately 60% of net consolidated receivables at December 31, 2005. Sales to AMC Theatres, Inc. represented approximately 10% of consolidated sales. Additionally, receivables from Vari International represented 16% of net consolidated receivables at December 31, 2005. While the Company believes its relationships with such customers are stable, most arrangements are made by purchase order and are terminable at will by either party. A significant decrease or interruption in business from the Company’s significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company could also be adversely affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency rates and weak economic and political conditions in each of the countries in which the Company sells its products. Ballantyne’s business is subject to the economic and political risks of selling products in foreign countries. Sales outside the United States (mainly theatre sales) continue to be significant, accounting for 29% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2005 compared to 31% in fiscal 2004. Ballantyne is seeking to expand its share of foreign sales, which it expects will continue to account for a significant portion of its revenues. Foreign sales are subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, fluctuating exchange rates with respect to sales not denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates. To date, all of Ballantyne’s foreign sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars, exclusive of sales resulting from its subsidiary in Hong Kong ($3.0 million in fiscal 2005), which are denominated in Hong Kong dollars. A weakening in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse impact on Ballantyne by increasing the effective price of Ballantyne’s products in international markets. In addition, there can be no assurance that Ballantyne’s international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. To the extent that orders are denominated in foreign currencies, Ballantyne’s reported sales and earnings are more directly subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. Certain areas of the world are also more cost conscious than the U.S. market and there are instances where Ballantyne’s products are priced higher than local manufacturers. Ballantyne cannot assure that these factors will not adversely affect its foreign sales in the future. The market for Ballantyne’s products is highly competitive and if Ballantyne fails to invest in product development and productivity improvements, its business could be materially adversely impacted. The domestic and international markets for Ballantyne’s product lines are highly competitive. Certain of Ballantyne’s competitors for its equipment have significantly greater resources. In the theatre segment, Ballantyne is experiencing new competition in the film motion picture industry as well as from the development of new technology for alternative means of motion picture presentation. Ballantyne cannot assure that its equipment will not become obsolete as technology advances. If Ballantyne loses market share due to these issues, Ballantyne may be unable to lower its cost structure quickly enough to offset the lost revenue. To counter these risks, Ballantyne has initiated a cost reduction program, continues to streamline its manufacturing processes and is formulating a strategy to respond to the digital marketplace. Ballantyne also is focusing on a growth and diversification strategy to find alternative product lines to 11 become less dependent on the theatre exhibition industry. However, Ballantyne cannot assure that this strategy will succeed or that it will be able to obtain adequate financing to take advantage of potential opportunities. If Ballantyne fails to retain key members of management, its business may be materially harmed. Ballantyne’s success depends, in substantial part, on the efforts and abilities of its current management team. Many of these individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Ballantyne and its operations. If certain of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, Ballantyne could face difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Growth through acquisition is a part of Ballantyne’s business plan and it may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions. As discussed in further detail in the “Business Strategy” portion of Item 1, Ballantyne’s strategy is to pursue complementary strategic acquisitions both within the theatre and lighting segments and also in other markets that would fit in Ballantyne’s business plans. Ballantyne expects to make acquisitions in the future. However, Ballantyne cannot assure that it will be able to locate appropriate acquisition candidates, that any identified candidates will be acquired or that acquired operations will be effectively integrated or prove profitable. Additionally, Ballantyne’s credit facility with First National Bank of Omaha currently prohibits Ballantyne from making acquisitions over $7 million without the bank’s consent. Interruptions of, or higher prices of components from, certain suppliers may affect Ballantyne’s results of operations and financial performance. Ballantyne utilizes a single contract manufacturer for each of its intermittent movement components, lenses and xenon lamps. Although Ballantyne has not, to date, experienced a significant difficulty in obtaining these components, it cannot assure that shortages will not arise in the future. The loss of any one or more of the contract manufacturers could have a short-term adverse effect on Ballantyne until alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured. Ballantyne is not dependent upon any one contract manufacturer or supplier for the balance of its raw materials and components. Ballantyne believes that there are adequate alternative sources of such raw materials and components of sufficient quantity and quality, but cannot assure that this will continue to be the case. In addition, volatility in the price for certain raw materials and components such as steel, fuel and lenses could adversely affect Ballantyne’s financial results. In particular, the strengthening of the Euro has resulted in increased costs for lens purchases from our German supplier. Based on forecasted purchases during 2005, an average 10% devaluation of the dollar compared to the Euro would cost Ballantyne approximately $0.2 million. Ballantyne’s stock price is vulnerable to significant fluctuations. The trading price of Ballantyne’s common stock has been highly volatile in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, general conditions in the industries in which Ballantyne operates and other factors. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume fluctuations affecting the market price for the stock of many companies generally, which fluctuations often are unrelated to operating performance. 12 Pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on Ballantyne’s financial position, cash flows and results of Operations. Ballantyne is currently a defendant in an asbestos case entitled Bercu v. BICC Cables Corporation, et al., filed June 27, 2003 in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. There are numerous defendants including Ballantyne. The case is set for trial to commence on May 1, 2006. Ballantyne believes that it has strong defenses and intends to seek a pre-trial summary judgment in its favor. Even so, it is not possible to predict the outcome of either the summary judgment request or the trial. Likewise, it is difficult to predict the amount of damages, if any, that a jury might award and the plaintiffs have made no monetary demand upon Ballantyne. It is possible that an adverse resolution of this case could have a material adverse effect on Ballantyne’s financial position. Ballantyne is also a party to various other legal actions which are ordinary routine matters incidental to the Company’s business. While management believes that the ultimate outcome of the matters individually and in the aggregate will not have a material impact on the financial position of the Company, no assurance can be given that an adverse opinion on any of the cases would not, in fact, materially impact the Company’s financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Certain anti-takeover provisions in Ballantyne’s governing documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Ballantyne. The Board of Directors has adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan. Under the terms of the rights plan, which expires June 9, 2010, Ballantyne declared a distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. The rights become exercisable only if a person or group (other than certain exempt persons), acquires 15% or more of Ballantyne’s common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of Ballantyne’s common stock. Under certain circumstances, the rights plan allows stockholders, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase Ballantyne’s common stock at a price that is one-half the market price. Ballantyne’s Certificate of Incorporation also provides for, among other things, the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The Board of Directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to cause Ballantyne to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers and the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights and restrictions of the preferred stock. Accordingly, Ballantyne may issue a series of preferred stock in the future that will have preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and upon Ballantyne’s liquidation, dissolution or winding up or have voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power and ownership percentages of the holders of common stock. Ballantyne’s Certificate of Incorporation also provides for the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of all outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class, to change certain provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws. Ballantyne’s Certificate of Incorporation further provides for the division of the Board into three classes. One class of directors is elected at each annual meeting of stockholders for three-year terms. Ballantyne’s Bylaws contain certain advance notice requirements relating to stockholder proposals and stockholder nomination of directors. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult or discouraging transactions that could give stockholders of Ballantyne the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. Shares eligible for future sale could have a possible adverse effect on the market price. Future sales of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or Ballantyne’s ability to raise additional capital through sales of its equity securities. 13 As of December 31, 2005, Ballantyne has: i) 13,397,531 shares owned by stockholders and ii) 2,540,018 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under stock option plans and contracts, of which 987,078 shares are issuable pursuant to currently outstanding options, and 150,000 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance pursuant to Ballantyne’s employee stock purchase plan. Of the shares outstanding, subject to outstanding options and reserved for issuance under the employee stock purchase plan, 939,828 shares are immediately eligible for resale in the public market without restriction. Ballantyne is unable to predict the effect that the sales of these shares may have on the prevailing market price of the common stock. Ballantyne may discover deficiencies in its internal controls as it implements new documentation and testing procedures to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Current SEC rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2007 to include a report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting and a statement that the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting and a report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. The Company has begun the process of complying with these requirements and while the Company has not yet identified any material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, there are no assurances that the Company will not discover deficiencies in its internal controls as it implements new documentation and testing procedures to comply with the new Section 404 reporting requirement. If the Company discovers deficiencies or is unable to complete the work necessary to properly evaluate its internal controls over financial reporting, there is a risk that management and/or the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In the event it becomes an accelerated filer, Ballantyne may incur significant costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act earlier than presently required. It is possible that the Company will become an accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and if so its compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will need to be included into Form 10-K for fiscal 2006. The Company will not know whether it will become an accelerated filer until June 30, 2006, which is the next date at which this status is determined. If it becomes an accelerated filer, Ballantyne’s compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be measured at the end of fiscal 2006 as opposed to 2007. As a result, Ballantyne may need to accelerate its compliance efforts which could, in turn, result in significantly increased compliance costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 