1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in shares of our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. We may be unsuccessful in adapting to new or advancing technologies, such as digital cinema. Although the theatre exhibition industry remains primarily based on the use of film technology to deliver motion picture images to the public, the transition to digital cinema began to show measurable progress in 2006 after several years of research and development. We believe we are in a position to participate in the digital cinema marketplace either through our relationship with NEC Solutions (America), Inc. or through other relationships with other digital cinema providers. However, we cannot assure that we will successfully or competitively advance this technology as might be required. In addition, the current relationship with NEC Solutions (America), Inc. is a non-exclusive distributorship agreement and as such the gross margin will be lower than the margin we currently experience on our analog projectors. It is unclear at this time if this lower margin can be offset by the expected increased sales volume digital cinema is expected to add when the rollout occurs. Our agreement with NEC is not perpetual and could be terminated with 90 day advance written notice. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with NEC, or otherwise take advantage of future digital cinema opportunities or respond to the new competitive pressures, the result could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our financial results and growth depend largely on the health of the theatre exhibition industry. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 92% of our revenues resulted from sales to the theatre exhibition industry. From fiscal years 2000 to 2002, this industry experienced an unprecedented three-year decline as overly aggressive building of megaplexes led to increased competition, significant declines in revenues per screen and, eventually, to a lack of operating capital by exhibition companies. Several exhibition companies filed for federal bankruptcy protection. This resulted in our revenues declining from $83.4 million in fiscal 1999 to $33.8 million in fiscal 2002. While the health of the theatre exhibition industry has improved significantly, there are still risks in the industry which result in continued exposure to Ballantyne. Because our commercial motion picture projectors have an estimated useful life of approximately 20 years, net sales and profitability are primarily dependent upon growth in the number of motion picture screens and the renovation and replacement of commercial motion picture projection equipment in existing theatres. Approximately 92% of our total net sales were derived from sales of theatre products. Growth in the number of new motion picture screens may be adversely affected by the economy as a whole and recent trends toward industry consolidation. Both of these factors may also have an adverse effect on our customer base. A lack of motion picture screen growth would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are substantially dependent upon significant customers who could cease purchasing our products at any time. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 45% of 2006 consolidated net revenues. The top ten customers were primarily from the theatre segment. In addition, sales to AMC Theatres, Inc. represented over 10% of consolidated sales. While we believe our relationships with such customers are stable, most arrangements are made by purchase order and are terminable at will by either party. A significant decrease or interruption in business from these significant customers could have a material 10 adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could also be adversely affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency rates and weak economic and political conditions in each of the countries in which we sell our products. Our business is subject to the economic and political risks of selling products in foreign countries. Sales outside the United States (mainly theatre sales) continue to be significant, accounting for 29% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively compared to 31% in fiscal 2004. We are seeking to expand our share of foreign sales, which we expect will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Foreign sales are subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, fluctuating exchange rates with respect to sales not denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates. To date, all of our foreign sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars, exclusive of sales resulting from our subsidiary in Hong Kong ($3.3 million in fiscal 2006), which are denominated in Hong Kong dollars. A weakening in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse impact on us by increasing the effective price of our products in international markets. In addition, there can be no assurance that our international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. To the extent that orders are denominated in foreign currencies, our reported sales and earnings are more directly subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. Certain areas of the world are also more cost conscious than the U.S. market and there are instances where our products are priced higher than local manufacturers. We cannot assure that these factors will not adversely affect our foreign sales in the future. The markets for our products are highly competitive and if we fail to invest in product development and productivity improvements, our business could be materially adversely impacted. The domestic and international markets for our product lines are highly competitive. Certain of our competitors for our equipment have significantly greater resources. In the theatre segment, we are experiencing new competition in the film motion picture industry as well as from the development of new technology for alternative means of motion picture presentation in the form of digital cinema. We cannot assure that our equipment (whether film or digital) will not become obsolete as technology advances. If we lose market share due to these issues, we may be unable to lower our cost structure quickly enough to offset the lost revenue. To counter these risks, we have initiated a cost reduction program, continue to streamline our manufacturing processes and have a strategy to respond to the digital marketplace. However, we cannot assure that this strategy will succeed or that it will be able to obtain adequate financing to take advantage of potential opportunities. If we fail to retain key members of management, our business may be materially harmed. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the efforts and abilities of our current management team. Many of these individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Ballantyne and its operations. If certain of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Growth through acquisition is a part of our business plan and we may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions. As discussed in further detail in the “Business Strategy” portion of Item 1, our strategy is to pursue complementary strategic acquisitions in the theatre and in other markets that would fit in our business plans. We expect to make acquisitions in the future. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to locate appropriate acquisition candidates, that any identified candidates will be acquired or that acquired operations will be effectively integrated or prove profitable. Additionally, our credit facility with First 11 National Bank of Omaha currently prohibits Ballantyne from making acquisitions over $7 million without the bank’s consent. Interruptions of, or higher prices of components from, certain suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. We utilize a single contract manufacturer for each of our intermittent movement components, lenses and xenon lamps. Although we have not, to date, experienced a significant difficulty in obtaining these components, we cannot assure that shortages will not arise in the future. The loss of any one or more of the contract manufacturers could have a short-term adverse effect on us until alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured. We are not dependent upon any one contract manufacturer or supplier for the balance of our raw materials and components. We believe that there are adequate alternative sources of such raw materials and components of sufficient quantity and quality, but cannot assure that this will continue to be the case. In addition, volatility in the price for certain raw materials and components such as steel, fuel and lenses could adversely affect our financial results. In particular, the strengthening of the Euro has resulted in increased costs for lens purchases from our German supplier. Based on forecasted purchases during 2006, an average 10% devaluation of the dollar compared to the Euro would cost us approximately $0.2 million. Our stock price is vulnerable to significant fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, general conditions in the industries in which we operate and other factors. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume fluctuations affecting the market price for the stock of many companies generally, which fluctuations often are unrelated to operating performance. Pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Ballantyne is currently a defendant in an asbestos case entitled Larry C. Stehman and Leila Stehman v. Asbestos Corporation, Limited and Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. individually and as successor in interest to Strong International, Strong Electric Corporation and Century Projector Corporation, et al, filed December 8, 2006 in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Francisco. We believe that we have strong defenses and intend to defend the suit vigorously. It is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of this case, or the amount of damages, if any, that a jury may award. The plaintiffs have made no monetary demand upon Ballantyne. It is possible that an adverse resolution of this case could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are also a party to various other legal actions which are ordinary routine matters incidental to the Company’s business. While management believes that the ultimate outcome of the matters individually and in the aggregate will not have a material impact on the financial position of the Company, no assurance can be given that an adverse decision in any of the cases would not, in fact, materially impact our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Certain anti-takeover provisions in Ballantyne’s governing documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Ballantyne. The Board of Directors has adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan. Under the terms of the Rights Plan, which expires June 9, 2010, we declared a distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. The rights become exercisable only if a person or group (other than certain exempt persons), 12 acquires 15% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of our common stock. Under certain circumstances, the Rights Plan allows stockholders, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase our common stock at a price that is one-half the market price. Our Certificate of Incorporation also provides for, among other things, the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The Board of Directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to cause Ballantyne to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers and the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights and restrictions of the preferred stock. Accordingly, we may issue a series of preferred stock in the future that will have preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up or have voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power and ownership percentages of the holders of common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation also provides for the affirmative vote of at least 662¤3% of all outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class, to change certain provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws. Our Bylaws contain certain advance notice requirements relating to stockholder proposals and stockholder nomination of directors. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult or discouraging transactions that could give stockholders of Ballantyne the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. Shares eligible for future sale could have a possible adverse effect on the market price. Future sales of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or our ability to raise additional capital through sales of its equity securities. As of December 31, 2006, we had: i) 13,726,584 shares owned by stockholders and ii) 1,490,040 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under stock plans, of which 720,925 shares are issuable pursuant to currently outstanding options, and 134,350 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance pursuant to Ballantyne’s employee stock purchase plan. Of the shares outstanding, subject to outstanding options and reserved for issuance under the employee stock purchase plan, 665,800 shares are immediately eligible for resale in the public market without restriction. We are unable to predict the effect that the sales of these shares may have on the prevailing market price of the common stock. We may discover deficiencies in our internal controls as we implement new documentation and testing procedures to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Current SEC rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2007 to include a report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. We have begun the process of complying with these requirements and while we have not yet identified any material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, there are no assurances that we will not discover deficiencies in our internal controls as we implement new documentation and testing procedures to comply with the new Section 404 reporting requirement. If we discover deficiencies or are unable to complete the work necessary to properly evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting, there is a risk that management and/or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. 13 In the event we become an accelerated filer, we may incur significant costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act earlier than presently required. It is possible that we will become an accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and if so our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will need a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting be included into Form 10-K for fiscal 2007, in addition to a report on management’s assessment. We will not know whether the Company will become an accelerated filer until June 30, 2007, which is the next date at which this status is determined. As a result, we may need to accelerate our compliance efforts which could, in turn, result in significantly increased compliance costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 