ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and any of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The following risks, among others, could cause our actual results, performance, achievements or industry results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements contained herein and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. In such case, the market price of our common stock would likely decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We will require in the near term, but may be unable to secure when needed, significant additional capital to support our operations, pay our debt service, commercialize our approved products and develop our products under development, including AEROSURF®, and to continue our other research and development programs. Moreover, any financings could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders, cause our stock price to fall and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. As of December 31, 2013, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $480 million and we expect to continue to incur significant, increasing operating losses over the next several years. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $86.3 million and $30 million ($18.4 million net of discount) of long-term debt under a secured loan (Deerfield Loan) with affiliates of Deerfield Management, L.P.(Deerfield). During 2013, we raised aggregate gross proceeds of $75.8 million through public offerings of our common stock, including net proceeds of approximately $1.8 million that we raised under our ATM Program. On November 8, 2013, we announced the commercial launch of SURFAXIN®. Before any additional financings, including under our ATM Program, we anticipate that we will have sufficient cash available to support our operations and debt service obligations through the third quarter of 2015. We expect to continue to require significant additional infusions of capital to execute our business strategy until such time as the net revenues from SURFAXIN and, potentially, AEROSURF, and from potential strategic alliance and collaboration arrangements and other sources, are sufficient to offset our cash flow requirements. Even if we succeed with the commercial introduction of SURFAXIN, we expect our revenues from SURFAXIN will be modest in the first 12-24 months and then increase slowly over time. For the next several years, we expect that our cash outflows for development programs, operations and debt service will far outpace the rate at which we may generate revenues from product sales. See, “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of our products or our research and development programs. We also could be required to: • seek collaborators for one or more of our development programs for territories that we had planned to retain or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; and/or • relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. If we are unable to secure capital from strategic alliances and collaboration arrangements and other similar transactions, we may seek additional capital from the public markets, which could have a dilutive impact on our stockholders and the issuance, or even potential issuance, of shares could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Depending on conditions in the global financial markets, we may face significant challenges accessing the capital markets at a time when we would like or require, and at an increased cost of capital. Except for our at-the-market equity program with Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated (ATM Program), which can be cancelled at any time, we do not have in place arrangements to obtain additional capital. Any such financing could be difficult to obtain or only available on unattractive terms and could result in significant dilution of stockholders’ interests. In any such event, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business plan, financial performance and stock price and could delay new product development and clinical trial plans. 25 Table of Contents The financial and operational projections that we may make from time to time are subject to inherent risks. The projections that our management may provide from time to time (including, but not limited to, those relating to product approval, production and supply dates, commercial launch dates, and other financial or operational matters) reflect numerous assumptions made by management, including assumptions with respect to our specific as well as general business, economic, market and financial conditions and other matters, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, there is a risk that the assumptions made in preparing the projections, or the projections themselves, will prove inaccurate. There will be differences between actual and projected results, and actual results may be materially different from those contained in the projections. The inclusion of the projections in (or incorporated by reference in) this Annual Report on Form 10-K should not be regarded as an indication that we or our management or representatives considered or consider the projections to be a reliable prediction of future events, and the projections should not be relied upon as such. Our clinical development program for AEROSURF involves significant risks and uncertainties that are inherent in the clinical development and regulatory approval processes. Our clinical trials may be delayed, or fail, which will harm our business prospects. We are currently conducting a phase 2a clinical trial, which is an open label, single-dose study with the primary goal of evaluating the safety and tolerability of aerosolized KL4 surfactant drug product administered in escalating inhaled doses in premature infants 29 to 32 weeks gestational age who are receiving nasal continuous positive airway pressure (nCPAP) for respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), compared to infants receiving nCPAP alone. This initial clinical trial is the first in a series of clinical trials that will be needed to gain marketing authorization for AEROSURF. Such programs generally take two to five years or more to complete and may be delayed by a number of factors. We may not reach agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or a foreign regulator on the design of any one or more of the clinical trials necessary for approval, or we may be unable to reach agreement on a single design that would permit us to conduct a single clinical program. Conditions imposed by the FDA and foreign regulators on our clinical program could significantly increase the time required to complete and the costs of conducting clinical trials. For example, we may not be successful in achieving a study design that is acceptable to both the FDA and regulators in other countries, which would cause us to limit the scope of our activities or greatly increase our investment. Like many biotechnology companies, even after obtaining promising preliminary findings or results in earlier preclinical studies and clinical trials, we may suffer significant setbacks in any stage of our clinical trials. Clinical data is susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may be unable to enroll patients quickly enough to meet our expectations for completing any or all of these trials. The timing and completion of current and planned clinical trials of our product candidates depend on many factors, including the rate at which patients are enrolled. Delays in patient enrollment in clinical trials may occur, which would be likely to result in increased costs, program delays, or both. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the number of clinical sites; • the size of the patient population; • the eligibility and enrollment criteria for the study; • the willingness of patients’ parents or guardians to participate in the clinical trial; • the existence of competing clinical trials; • the existence of alternative available products; and • geographical and geopolitical considerations. 26 Table of Contents If in our clinical trials, we succeed in achieving our patient enrollment targets, our patients could suffer adverse medical events or side effects that are known to be associated with surfactant administration, such as a decrease in the oxygen level of the blood, or currently unknown to us. It is also possible that we, our AEROSURF Clinical Trial (ACT) Steering Committee, the Safety Review Committee (SRC), or the FDA could interrupt, delay or halt any one or more of our clinical trials for AEROSURF or any of our product candidates. If our ACT Steering Committee, the SRC, any regulator or we believe that study participants face unacceptable health risks, any one or more of our clinical trials could be suspended or terminated. In addition, clinical trials may be interrupted, delayed or halted, in whole or in part, for reasons other than health and safety concerns, including, among other things, matters related to the design of the study, drug availability, ACT Steering Committee and/or SRC recommendation, or business reasons. In addition to our planned clinical program to support AEROSURF, in the future, we also may initiate or support clinical trials evaluating other KL4 surfactant pipeline products. All of these clinical trials will be time-consuming and potentially costly. Should we fail to complete our clinical development programs or should such programs yield unacceptable results, such failures would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to successfully commercialize SURFAXIN, or if our efforts to commercialize SURFAXIN are significantly delayed or impaired, our ability to grow our revenues and continue our development programs will be impaired, and we may be unable to secure the additional capital that we require, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the price of our common stock would likely decline. We initiated the commercial introduction of SURFAXIN in late 2013. SURFAXIN product sales are expected to constitute most, if not all, of our total revenue from product sales over the next several years. Our efforts to successfully execute the commercial introduction of SURFAXIN are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different. The commercial success of SURFAXIN and our ability to generate and increase revenues will depend on a number of factors, including the following: • the number of hospitals and critical-care centers that agree to place SURFAXIN drug product on their formulary lists and the length of time required to achieve broad formulary acceptance; • the willingness of hospitals to accept and employ WARMING CRADLE® dry-block heater, a device that warms drug vials at the same temperature and for the time period designated in the SURFAXIN prescribing information; • the effectiveness of our marketing, sales and medical affairs organizations and their ability to (a) accurately describe SURFAXIN consistent with its approved labeling, and (b) educate and provide critical care providers and hospitals with medical and scientific education and information; • our ability to gain access to the entire market with our commercial organization; • our ability to provide hospitals acceptable evidence of the safety and efficacy of SURFAXIN and the perceived advantages of SURFAXIN, a synthetic peptide-containing surfactant, over alternative animal-derived surfactants; • the pharmacoeconomic benefits (which are determined by comparing, among other things, the cost and effects of a product when compared to different treatment options) and cost-effectiveness of our products; 27 Table of Contents • the impact of adding SURFAXIN and WARMING CRADLE heater to formulary and medical device hospital lists and the availability, cost and potential advantages of alternative treatments, including less expensive generic drugs and other competitive products; • the availability of different size drug vials and medical devices to meet the specific needs of healthcare practitioners; • the claims, limitations, warnings and other information that appear in the package insert and labeling of SURFAXIN drug product; • the willingness of third-party payers, including government payers, to provide coverage and reimbursements to patients, physicians and other providers who wish to prescribe and use our products; • our ability to secure and maintain regulatory marketing approvals from the U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities; • the rate of preterm births; • the number of infants who are diagnosed with RDS and the number treated with SURFAXIN; • the growth of commercial sales; • our ability to meet commercial demand for SURFAXIN, including through maintenance of commercial supplies of our active drug substances and other excipients, and manufacturing capabilities, by ourselves and through contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs); and commercial inventory supplies of our medical device products; and • the sufficiency of coverage or reimbursement by third parties. Generally, before we can attempt to sell products in a hospital, drug products must be approved for addition to that hospital’s list of approved drugs, or formulary list, by the hospital’s Pharmacy and Therapeutics (P&T) committee. A hospital’s P&T committee typically governs all matters pertaining to the use of medications within the institution, including the review of medication formulary data and recommendations for the appropriate use of drugs within the institution to the medical staff. The frequency of P&T committee meetings at hospitals varies considerably, and P&T committees often require additional information to aid in their decision-making process. Therefore, we may experience substantial delays in obtaining formulary approvals. In addition, our AFECTAIR® device must be approved for use by hospitals’ materials management, and we will need to arrange with each hospital to include WARMING CRADLE on the hospital’s list of approved laboratory equipment. There can be no assurance that we will successfully gain the required hospital approvals for our products. Additionally, hospitals may be concerned that the cost of acquiring our products for use in their institutions will adversely impact their overall budgets, which could cause resistance to efforts to add our drugs to the formulary and products to the materials list, or cause hospitals to implement restrictions on the usage of our drugs and products in order to control costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining the approvals we need from enough hospitals quickly enough to optimize hospital sales of SURFAXIN, AFECTAIR or our other products. Our efforts to achieve formulary acceptance of SURFAXIN, and to educate the medical community and third-party payers regarding the benefits of SURFAXIN will require significant, focused and competent resources and we may not be successful in achieving our objectives. If we are unable to achieve formulary acceptance in our target hospitals, the revenues we generate from sales will be limited and we may never achieve profitability. 28 Table of Contents The commercial success of our product candidates, including SURFAXIN, AFECTAIR, and, if approved, AEROSURF, will depend in large part upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payers and others in the medical community. Even if we are successful in achieving formulary acceptance of SURFAXIN and, if approved, AEROSURF, and adoption of AFECTAIR device, in our target hospitals, if we do not achieve broad market acceptance of our products by physicians, respiratory therapists, nurses and other personnel in neonatal and pediatric intensive care units (NICUs and PICUS) and elsewhere in the hospital, as well as patients, healthcare payers and others in the medical community in general, we may not generate sufficient revenues to support continued commercialization of these and our other products, if approved for commercial sale. The degree of market acceptance of our approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • the willingness of physicians and hospitals to utilize our products and the willingness of hospitals’ P&T Committees to place our products on formulary or on the list of medical devices the hospital will purchase; • the safety and efficacy of our products, both in fact and as perceived by the medical community, regulatory agencies and insurers and other payers, on both a short and long-term basis; • the potential advantages of our products over alternative treatments; • the relative convenience and ease of use; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse events, including any unexpected adverse events of which we become aware; and • the degree to which the market believes that we are able to manufacture our products and produce supply sufficient to meet market demand. As a company, we have limited experience in the field of marketing or selling pharmaceutical and medical device products and limited marketing capabilities, which may restrict our success in commercializing our products. We have established our own commercial and medical affairs organization to launch our products in the U.S. While we believe that this strategy greatly improves our ability to introduce our products in the U.S., it may also increase the cost to commercialize our products. We have limited experience in marketing or selling pharmaceutical and medical device products, although we have endeavored to hire individuals that have significant experience in neonatal indications and/or hospital-based products. We plan to rely solely on our own specialty respiratory critical care commercial and medical affairs organization to market and support SURFAXIN, and, if approved, AEROSURF and potentially SURFAXIN LS™, if approved, in the U.S. We also plan to rely on our own commercial and medical affairs organization to introduce AFECTAIR device in the U.S. We believe that AFECTAIR device will be of interest to many of the same hospitals, neonatologists and neonatal intensive care units that purchase SURFAXIN. Commercializing our products in the U.S. on our own may cause our commercialization costs to increase, but will potentially avoid the transfer of rights to our products or drug product candidates and thereby potentially increase the revenue opportunity. Building our own commercial and medical affairs capabilities is potentially expensive and time-consuming and requires a substantial capital investment. Recruiting, training and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. Competition for such personnel can be intense, and we may be unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals to successfully support the launch and continued distribution of our products. We also may be unable to provide competitive incentives to retain our sales force. If we are unable to successfully retain, motivate and attract experienced individuals for our commercial and medical affairs organization to support the introduction, marketing and sale of our products, we will have difficulty selling, maintaining and increasing the sales of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 29 Table of Contents We may seek strategic alliances and/or collaboration arrangements to support the potential commercial introduction of SURFAXIN and, if approved, SURFAXIN LS in countries where regulatory marketing authorization is facilitated by the information contained in the SURFAXIN new drug application (NDA) approved by the FDA. We also may consider strategic alliances and/or collaboration arrangements, including third-party distributors or marketing alliances, to sell our AFECTAIR device in international markets. We may not be successful in entering into any such arrangements, and the terms of any such arrangements may not be favorable to us. In addition, if we enter into co-marketing arrangements to market and sell additional products directly, we may need to further expand our commercial staff and incur additional expense. If we enter into alliances, distribution and collaboration arrangements to commercialize our products, such arrangements will subject us to a number of risks, including: • our distributors or collaborators may require that we transfer to them important rights to our products and/or product candidates; • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our distributors or collaborators devote to the commercialization of our products; • if our distributors or collaborators fail to perform their obligations under our arrangements to our satisfaction, we may not achieve our projected sales and our revenues would suffer. We also may incur additional expense to terminate such arrangements and to identify and enter into arrangements with replacement distributors or collaborators; • our distributors or collaborators may experience financial difficulties; and • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to perform its obligations under any arrangement, which would adversely affect our business. If we fail to enter into arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or if such parties fail to perform, it could adversely affect sales of our products. We and our third-party distributors and collaborators must also market our products in compliance with federal, state and local laws related to providing incentives and inducements. Violation of these laws can result in substantial penalties. If we fail to maintain our commercial and medical affairs capabilities or if we are unable to enter into arrangements with third parties in a timely manner when needed, or if such third parties fail to perform, it could adversely affect sales of our products. In addition, even if we establish or secure such capabilities, our third-party collaborators and we must also market our products in compliance with federal, state and local laws relating to the restrictions on incentives and inducements. Violation of these laws can result in substantial penalties. If we are unable to successfully motivate our sales force, or if our distributors fail to promote our products, we will have difficulty maintaining and increasing the sales of our products. If we do not adequately forecast customer demand for our approved products, including SURFAXIN and, if approved, AEROSURF, our business could suffer. If we are successful, we also potentially are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our business planning requires us to forecast demand and revenues despite numerous uncertainties. Actual results of operations may deviate materially from projected results. The timing and amount of customer demand and the commercial requirements to meet changing customer demand are difficult to predict. We may not be able to accurately forecast customer demand for our products and product candidates, starting with SURFAXIN, or to respond effectively to unanticipated increases in demand. This could have an adverse effect on our business. If we overestimate customer demand, or attempt to commercialize products for which the market is smaller than we anticipate, we could incur significant unrecoverable costs from creating excess capacity. 30 Table of Contents In addition, the current economic conditions may result in reduced demand for our products, increased pricing pressure, longer sales cycles, and slower adoption rates for our products. Conditions in the healthcare industry, including lower healthcare utilization, cost containment efforts by governments and other payers for healthcare services and other factors may result in weaker overall customer demand and increased pricing pressure for our products. The current economic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers, which could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We expect to offer certain of our products in the EU and elsewhere, which would subject us to risks associated with doing business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. These risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes in exchange controls, increasingly complex labor environments, expropriation and other governmental actions, availability of raw materials, changes in taxation, importation limitations, export control restrictions, changes in or violations of U.S. or local laws, including the FCPA, pricing restrictions, economic and political instability, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, and disruption in a significant geographic region regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest. Failure to comply with, or material changes to, the laws and regulations that affect our business could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our manufacturing strategy includes relying, at least in part in the future, on third parties to manufacture our current approved products as well as certain of our drug product candidates and medical devices, which exposes us to risks that may affect our ability to maintain supplies of our commercial products and/or delay our research and development activities, regulatory approval and commercialization of our drug product candidates. We currently manufacture SURFAXIN at our Totowa Facility. Our strategy includes potentially manufacturing SURFAXIN in the future and our lyophilized dosage form of our KL4 surfactant, as well as our capillary aerosol generator (CAG) for AEROSURF and AFECTAIR devices, using third-party contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs). Our efforts to conduct a technology transfer of our manufacturing process and our planned future reliance on CMOs exposes us, among other things, to the following risks: • we may be unable to identify manufacturers with whom we might establish appropriate arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all, because the number of potential CMOs is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement CMO. This approval could require one or more pre-approval inspections as well as a potentially lengthy qualification process. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our approved products after receipt of FDA approval. This could take as long as 2 years to qualify and receive regulatory approval; • we may implement a plan to execute a technology transfer of our manufacturing process to a CMO and, after investing significant time and resources, learn that the CMO we chose is unable to successfully complete the technology transfer and thereafter manufacture our products in accordance with our plan; • CMOs might be unable to manufacture our products in the volume and to our specifications to meet our commercial and clinical needs, or we may have difficulty scheduling the production of drug product and devices in a timely manner to meet our timing requirements; • CMOs may not perform as agreed, or may not remain in the CMO business for a lengthy time, or may refuse to renew an expiring agreement as expected, or may fail to produce a sufficient supply to meet our commercial and/or clinical needs; • CMOs are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, international health authorities, registered Notified Body(ies), the Drug Enforcement Administration, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and/or quality system regulations (QSR) and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over a CMO’s compliance with these regulations and standards; • if we desire to make our drug products and/or devices available outside the U.S. for commercial or clinical purposes, our CMOs would become subject to, and may not be able to comply with, corresponding manufacturing and quality system regulations of the various foreign regulators having jurisdiction over our activities abroad. Such failures could restrict our ability to execute our business strategies; and • if any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not have rights to, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to any such innovation. We may be required to pay fees or other costs for access to such improvements. 31 Table of Contents Each of the foregoing risks and others could delay our commercial manufacturing plans and our development programs, the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues. We may enter into strategic alliances, distributor, co-marketing or other collaboration arrangements, which could expose us to risks associated with the transfer of control to third parties and may require that we transfer rights to our products to our partners and collaborators. To support our AEROSURF development program and potentially the commercial introduction of AEROSURF in markets outside the U.S., we seek a significant strategic alliance that potentially could provide development, regulatory and commercial market expertise as well as financial resources for our AEROSURF development program, and, if approved, support for the commercial introduction of AEROSURF in the EU and other selected markets outside the U.S. While we are engaged in discussions with potential strategic partners who could provide development and commercial expertise as well as financial resources (potentially in the form of upfront payments, milestone payments, commercialization royalties and a sharing of research and development expenses), there can be no assurance that we will ultimately secure such an alliance, if at all, on acceptable terms. To support the commercial introduction of SURFAXIN and our other KL4 surfactant products, including potentially SURFAXIN LS, in markets outside the U.S., we may enter into distributor arrangements or seek strategic alliances and/or collaboration arrangements to support the potential commercial introduction of SURFAXIN and, if approved, SURFAXIN LS, in countries where regulatory marketing authorization is facilitated by the recent approval of SURFAXIN by the FDA. If we determine to distribute AFECTAIR devices in markets outside the U.S., we may enter into distributor arrangements in various countries. If we succeed in entering into one or more strategic alliances, or distributor, co-marketing or other collaboration arrangements, our ability to execute our operating plan will depend upon numerous factors, including the performance of the strategic partners and collaborators with whom we may engage. Under these arrangements, our partners may control key decisions relating to the development and, if approved, commercialization of our products. Such rights of our partners would limit our flexibility in considering development strategies and in commercializing our products. In addition, if we breach or terminate our agreements or if our strategic partners or collaborators otherwise fail to conduct their activities in a timely manner, or if there is a dispute about our respective obligations, we may need to seek other partners or collaborators or, in the alternative and after a potentially unacceptable delay, develop our own internal sales and marketing capabilities to commercialize our products in markets outside the U.S. If we fail to successfully develop these relationships, or if we or our partners or collaborators fail to successfully develop or commercialize any of our products, it may delay or prevent us from developing or commercializing our products in a competitive and timely manner and would have a material adverse effect on the commercialization of our products. 32 Table of Contents For example, our collaboration arrangement with Esteve for SURFAXIN and certain other of our drug product candidates is focused on Andorra, Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain. We have limited influence over the decisions made by Esteve or its sublicensees or the resources that they may devote to the marketing and distribution of our KL4 surfactant products in their licensed territory, and Esteve or its sublicensees may not meet their obligations in this regard. Our marketing and distribution arrangement with Esteve may not be successful, and, as a result, we may not receive any revenues from it. In addition, we may not be able to enter into marketing and sales agreements for our KL4 surfactant pipeline products on acceptable terms, if at all, in territories not covered by the Esteve agreement, or for any of our other drug product candidates. If Esteve or we should fail to conduct our respective collaboration-related activities in a timely manner, or otherwise breach or terminate the agreements that make up our collaboration arrangements, or if a dispute should arise under our collaboration arrangements, such events could impair our ability to commercialize or develop our products for the Esteve territory in Europe. In that event, we may need to seek other partners and collaboration arrangement, or we may have to develop our own internal capabilities to market the covered products in the Esteve territory without a collaboration arrangements. Our plan to use strategic alliances and collaboration arrangements to leverage our capabilities may not be successful if we are unable to integrate our partners’ capabilities with our own or if our partners’ capabilities do not meet our expectations. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate strategic partnership opportunities and collaboration arrangements. In order for these efforts to be successful, we must first identify partners whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. Technologies to which we gain access may prove ineffective or unsafe. Ownership of these technologies may be disputed. The agreements that grant us access to such technologies may expire and may not be renewable or could be terminated if our partners or we do not meet our respective obligations. In addition, our partners may provide certain services for us, such as product development support or distribution services. These agreements may be subject to differing interpretations and we and our partners may not agree on the appropriate interpretation or specific requirements. Among other things, our partners may prove difficult to work with, less effective than we originally expected or unable to satisfy their financial and other commitments to us. Failure of our partners to perform as needed could place us at a competitive disadvantage. If one of our strategic partners or collaborators pursues a product that competes with our products, there could be a conflict of interest and we may not receive expected revenues or milestone or royalty payments. Certain of our potential strategic partners and collaborators may be developing or marketing a variety of products, some with other partners. Partners or collaborators with whom we enter into distribution agreements may sell and market products that compete with ours, or they may seek to develop, market or sell existing or alternative products or technologies or products targeted at the same diseases or conditions as the products that are the subject of an arrangement with us. Our strategic partners and collaborators may also develop products that are similar to or compete with products they are developing in collaboration with us. If these entities pursue other products instead of our products, we may not receive the anticipated revenues or milestone or royalty payments, or our efforts to distribute our products may be adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents If our business development activities are unsuccessful, our business could suffer and our financial performance could be adversely affected. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we engage in business development activities intended to develop strategic opportunities, including potential strategic alliances, joint development opportunities, acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements and other similar opportunities. Such opportunities may result in substantial investments. Our success in developing products or expanding into new markets from such activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to find suitable opportunities for investment, alliance or acquisition; whether we are able to complete an investment, alliance or acquisition on terms that are satisfactory to us; the strength of our underlying technology, products and our ability to execute our business strategies; any intellectual property and litigation related to these products or technology; and our ability to successfully execute the investment, alliance or acquisition into our existing operations, including to fund our share of any in-process research and development projects. If we are unsuccessful in our business development activities, we may be unable to meet our financial targets and our financial performance could be adversely affected. We may have difficulty managing our growth. We have experienced significant growth in the scope of our operations as we have prepared for the anticipated launch of our products in the U.S., and thereafter, through strategic partnerships or distributorships, in the EU and in selected markets outside the U.S. As this potential growth occurs, it has and will continue to place additional significant demands on our management and our financial and operational resources, and will require that we continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls. We also are engaged in discussions with potential strategic partners, which, if successful, will require additional management resources and controls to implement and potentially add a layer of complexity to our operations. We plan at various stages of development to distribute our products in the U.S. and potentially the EU and potentially other major markets, through potential strategic alliances and collaboration arrangements. This expansion could further increase the challenges involved in implementing appropriate operational and financial systems, expanding manufacturing and production capacity, expanding our marketing and sales infrastructure and capabilities, and providing adequate training and supervision to maintain high quality standards. We believe that the significant challenges associated with our potential growth will include our ability to recruit, train and integrate skilled marketing, sales, medical affairs, supply chain, administrative and management personnel; to establish and effectively manage strategic partnerships and collaboration arrangements to support our development and commercialization activities; and to provide for manufacturing, including analytical testing and distribution capabilities, for our products, and clinical capabilities for our products under development. Our inability to grow our business effectively and appropriately or otherwise adapt to growth would cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We are continually evaluating our business strategy and may modify this strategy in light of developments in our business and other factors. As we proceed with our plans to commercialize SURFAXIN in markets both inside and potentially outside the U.S., we will continually evaluate our commercial strategy and will modify our plans as necessary to achieve our objectives. The activities associated with introduction of a new product are complex, involve many persons and entities, including third parties that we may not be able to control, and require the coordination of a number of elements, any one of which could involve unforeseen events or circumstances that require adjustment or the development of alternative strategies. If we encounter such events or circumstances, we will change our strategy and plans if we believe that such a change will be in our best interest. For example, if we experience any significant delay in our efforts to commercialize our products, we may adjust our approach to take into account any potential impact such a delay may have on our cash resources and our ability to fund our activities, or, if we were to determine that an alternative approach or structure would allow us to maintain control of our products or improve the profitability of our products in one or more markets, we will consider adopting such other approaches, including increasing our investment in internal capabilities. Similarly, if a potential partner or collaborator were to make observations or recommendations concerning the focus, sequence or approach of any or all of our research and development programs, we may consider taking such observations or recommendations into account in our planning process and activities. There can be no assurance, whether or not we alter our strategy or plans for any reason, that we will be successful, or that our product launches will be effectively executed on time, if at all, in all markets that we may identify. 34 Table of Contents Our ability to discover and develop new products depends on our internal research capabilities and our ability to acquire products. Although we continue to conduct research and development activities on products, our limited resources may not be sufficient to discover and develop new product candidates. To assist us with the development of our products and, if approved, commercialization of our products in markets outside the U.S., we continue to evaluate potential strategic partnership and collaboration arrangements. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that, even if we identify and enter into any such strategic partnership or collaboration arrangement, that such transactions will be successfully implemented, if at all, within our expected time frames. We continue to evaluate our business strategy and, as a result, may modify our strategy in the future. With respect to our research and development activities, to respond to changing circumstances, we may, from time to time, refocus our product development efforts on different products or may pace, delay or halt the development of various products. As a result of changes in our strategy, we may also change or refocus our existing drug discovery, development, commercialization and manufacturing activities. This could require changes in our facilities and personnel and restructuring various financial arrangements. There can be no assurances that any product development or other changes that we implement will be successful or that, after implementation of any such changes, that we will not refocus our efforts on new or different objectives. Our existing and future debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition, and in the event we are unable to meet our debt obligations, the lenders could foreclose on our assets. In connection with a facility agreement entered into on February 13, 2013, Deerfield advanced the Deerfield Loan to us, consisting of $30 million principal amount. Our debt obligations: • could impair our liquidity; • could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our other obligations; • require us to dedicate cash flow to payments on our debt obligations, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate requirements; • impose restrictions on our ability to incur other indebtedness, grant liens on our assets, other than permitted indebtedness and permitted liens, and could impede us from obtaining additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • impose restrictions on us with respect to the use of our available cash, including in connection with future acquisitions; • could adversely affect our ability to enter into strategic transactions and similar agreements, or require us to obtain the consent of our lenders; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business prospects and could limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our licensing markets; and • could place us at a competitive disadvantage when compared to our competitors who are not similarly restricted. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure our obligations under the Deerfield Loan. In the event that we were to fail in the future to make any required payment under the Deerfield Loan or fail to comply with the covenants contained in the facility agreement and other related agreements, we would be in default regarding that indebtedness. A debt default would enable the lenders to foreclose on the assets securing such debt and could significantly diminish the market value and marketability of our common stock and could result in the acceleration of the payment obligations under all or a portion of our consolidated indebtedness. 35 Table of Contents Our activities are subject to various and complex laws and regulations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. Any failure to comply could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products and our operations are regulated by numerous government agencies, both inside and outside the U.S. Our drug product candidates and medical devices must undergo lengthy and rigorous testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Our facilities and those of our third-party providers must be approved and licensed prior to production and remain subject to inspection at any time thereafter. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities, including a failed inspection or a failure in our post-marketing reporting, could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of our products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. Any of these actions could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our sales. In addition, requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities may change and implementing any additional compliance requirements may increase our costs, or force us or our third-party providers to suspend production, which could result in a shortage of our approved product or delays in the commercial introduction of our new product candidates, if approved. With the commercial launch of SURFAXIN, AFECTAIR and, if approved, AEROSURF, we are and will be required to comply with not only the requirements of the FDA and potentially international regulators, but will also become subject to various federal, state and international laws regulating the sales, marketing, and distribution of healthcare-related products. These laws govern such activities as our relationships with healthcare providers, the promotion of our products, and pricing of prescription drug products and medical devices. The sales and marketing of products and relationships that pharmaceutical and medical device companies have with healthcare providers are under increasing scrutiny by federal, state and foreign government agencies. The FDA and other federal regulators have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the Anti-Kickback Statute, False Claims Act, off-label promotion of products, and other healthcare related laws, antitrust and other competition laws. The Department of Justice (DOJ) also has increased its focus on the enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), particularly as it relates to the conduct of pharmaceutical companies. Foreign governments have also increased their scrutiny of pharmaceutical companies’ sales and marketing activities and relationships with healthcare providers. Of particular importance, federal and state anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. These laws can be complicated, are subject to frequent change and may be violated unknowingly. In addition, the absence of guidance for some of these laws and the very few court decisions addressing industry practices increase the likelihood that our practices could be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to the government (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. In addition, a number of states require that companies implement compliance programs or comply with industry ethics codes, adopt spending limits, and report to state governments any gifts, compensation, and other remuneration provided to physicians. Many pharmaceutical, device, and other health care companies have been investigated and prosecuted for alleged violations of these laws. Sanctions under these laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs (including Medicare and Medicaid), criminal fines, and imprisonment. Companies that have chosen to settle these alleged violations have typically paid multi-million dollar fines to the government and agreed to abide by corporate integrity agreements, which often include significant and costly burdens. Under the federal False Claims Act and related state laws, private individuals may bring similar actions. In addition, an increasing number of state laws require manufacturers to report to the state certain pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the state authorities. 36 Table of Contents We are continually evaluating our comprehensive compliance program, including policies, training and various forms of monitoring, designed to address the sales-and-marketing-related risks set forth above. However, no compliance program can mitigate risk in its entirety. Violations or allegations of violations of these laws may result in large civil and criminal penalties, debarment from participating in government programs, diversion of management time, attention and resources and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulatory approval process for our products is expensive and time-consuming and the outcome is uncertain. We may not obtain required regulatory approvals to commercialize our products. To test, make and sell our products under development, we must receive regulatory approvals for each product. The FDA and foreign regulators, such as the European Medicines Agency (EMA), extensively and rigorously regulate the testing, manufacture, distribution, advertising, pricing and marketing of drug products. This approval process includes (i) preclinical studies and clinical trials of each drug product candidate and active pharmaceutical ingredient to establish its safety and effectiveness, and (ii) confirmation by the FDA and foreign regulators that we maintain good laboratory and manufacturing practices during testing and manufacturing. Even if favorable data are generated by clinical trials, the FDA or foreign regulator may not accept or approve an NDA or Market Authorization Application (MAA) filed for a drug product on a timely basis or at all. See, “Item 1 – Business – Government Regulation.” We are currently conducting a phase 2a clinical program for AEROSURF. There can be no assurance that issues requiring protracted and time-consuming preclinical studies will not arise or that our clinical program trials will be concluded successfully. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in gaining regulatory approval for AEROSURF or, if we determine that there is a feasible development plan that can be accomplished with an acceptable investment and within an acceptable time, SURFAXIN LS, if at all. We plan to pursue clinical development in the U.S. and potentially in the EU and other markets, and, if approved, market and sell our products in the U.S. and potentially in the EU and other major markets. To accomplish this objective, we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and comply with regulatory requirements in each jurisdiction. To avoid the significant expense and lengthy time required to complete multiple clinical programs, we expect to meet with relevant regulatory authorities with the goal of designing a single, global clinical program. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful. If we are unable to reach agreement with the various regulatory authorities, we may not be able to pursue regulatory approval of our products in all of our selected markets. 37 Table of Contents The approval procedures vary among countries in complexity and timing. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the U.S. on a timely basis, if at all, which would preclude us from commercializing products in those markets. In addition, some countries, particularly the countries of the EU, regulate the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In these countries, pricing discussions with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of their product candidate to other available therapies. Such trials may be time-consuming and expensive, and may not show an advantage in efficacy for our products. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, in either the U.S. or the EU, we could be adversely affected. Even though some of our product candidates have qualified for expedited review, the FDA may not approve them at all or any sooner than other product candidates that do not qualify for expedited review. The FDA has notified us that two indications of our KL4 surfactant technology pipeline, BPD in premature infants and ARDS in adults, have been granted designation as “Fast Track” products under provisions of the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997. We believe that other potential products in our KL4 surfactant technology pipeline may also qualify for Fast Track designation. Fast Track designation does not accelerate clinical trials nor does it mean that the regulatory requirements are less stringent. Our products may cease to qualify for expedited review and our other product candidates may fail to qualify for Fast Track designation or expedited review. Moreover, even if we are successful in gaining Fast Track designation, other factors could result in significant delays in our development activities with respect to our Fast Track products. Even if we succeed in gaining regulatory approval to market our drugs, if the FDA and foreign regulators later withdraw their approval or otherwise restrict marketing, our business would be materially harmed. The FDA has approved SURFAXIN for marketing in the U.S. Our development program for AEROSURF is in phase 2 clinical trials. We currently are planning to seek regulatory advice from the FDA to determine if we could gain marketing authorization for SURFAXIN LS, a lyophilized dosage form of SURFAXIN, under a development plan that would be both capital efficient and capable of implementation within a reasonable time. If feasible, we would likely seek to implement such a development plan. Foreign regulators have not yet approved SURFAXIN or any of our KL4 surfactant products under development. Without regulatory approval, we will not be able to market these products. Even if we were to succeed in gaining regulatory approvals for any of our products, the FDA or a foreign regulator could at any time withdraw any approvals granted if there is a later discovery of previously unidentified problems or if we fail to comply with other applicable regulatory requirements at any stage in the regulatory process, or the FDA or a foreign regulator may restrict or delay our marketing of a product, including by requiring us to include warnings and other restrictions in the package inserts for our products, or force us to make product recalls. In addition, the FDA could impose other sanctions such as fines, injunctions, civil penalties or criminal prosecutions. Any withdrawal of our regulatory approval or significant restriction on our ability to market our products after approval would have a material adverse effect on our business. 38 Table of Contents Our research and development programs, including for AEROSURF, involve significant risks and uncertainties that are inherent in the clinical development and regulatory approval processes. Development risk factors include, but are not limited to, whether we, or our third-party collaborators, contract research organizations (CROs), drug substances and materials suppliers and CMOs, will be able to: • competently execute and complete our preclinical and clinical trials of our KL4 surfactant product candidates with scientific results that are sufficient to support further development and regulatory approval; • receive the necessary regulatory approvals; • obtain adequate supplies of the active pharmaceutical ingredients, manufactured to our specifications and on commercially reasonable terms; • perform under agreements to supply drug substances, medical devices and related components and related services necessary to manufacture our KL4 surfactant product candidates; • provide for sufficient manufacturing capabilities, at our manufacturing operations in Totowa and with CMOs, to produce sufficient drug product, including for KL4 surfactant-related studies, AEROSURF and SURFAXIN LS development activities, and CAG devices and related materials to meet our preclinical and clinical development requirements; and • obtain the capital necessary to fund our research and development efforts, including our business administration, preclinical and clinical organizations, and our quality and manufacturing operations. Because these factors, many of which are outside our control, could have a potentially significant impact on our development activities, the success, timing of completion and ultimate cost of development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain and cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty. The timing and cost to complete drug trials alone may be impacted by, among other things: • slow patient enrollment; • long treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness; • lack of sufficient clinical supplies and material; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; • lack of compatibility with complementary technologies; • failure of a drug product candidate to demonstrate effectiveness; and • lack of sufficient funds. If we do not successfully complete clinical trials, we will not receive regulatory approval to market our KL4 surfactant pipeline products. Failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approval and generate revenues from the sale of our products would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and likely reduce the market value of our common stock. 39 Table of Contents Failure to complete the development of our CAG device and related componentry in a timely manner, if at all, would have a material adverse effect on our efforts to develop AEROSURF or our other aerosolized KL4 surfactant products, and our business strategy. We have recently completed development of a clinic-ready CAG device that is suitable for use in our ongoing phase 2 clinical trial and currently are working to further develop our CAG device for use in our planned phase 3 clinical trial and potentially for commercial use. Our development activities are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: • We may not successfully develop a CAG device that is acceptable for use in a phase 3 program and commercial environment, if at all, on a timely basis and such inability may delay or prevent initiation of our phase 3 clinical trial. • We will require access to sophisticated engineering capabilities. We have medical device engineering staff and we are currently working with Battelle Memorial Institute (Battelle), which has expertise in medical device development and medical device design and a successful track record in developing aerosolization systems for the medical and pharmaceutical industries. If for any reason we are unable to retain our own engineering capabilities, the agreement with Battelle is terminated, and we are unable to identify design engineers and medical device experts to support our development efforts, including for a clinic-ready CAG system for use in our planned clinical trials and, potentially, for commercial use and later versions of the CAG systems, it would have a material adverse effect on our business strategy and impair our ability to commercialize or develop AEROSURF or other aerosolized KL4 surfactant products. • We will also require additional capital to advance our development activities and plan to seek a potential strategic partner or third-party collaborator to provide financial support and potentially medical device development and commercialization expertise. There can be no assurance, however, that we will successfully identify or be able to enter into agreements with such potential partners or collaborators on terms and conditions that are favorable to us. If we are unable to secure the necessary medical device development expertise to support our development program, this could impair our ability to commercialize or develop AEROSURF or other aerosolized KL4 surfactant products. The realization of any of the foregoing risks would have a material adverse effect on our business. Manufacturing problems potentially could cause us to experience shortages of SURFAXIN and AFECTAIR product inventories, or delay our preclinical or clinical programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The manufacture of pharmaceutical and medical device products requires significant expertise and compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. We, our CMOs or our materials and drug substances suppliers may experience manufacturing or quality control and assurance problems that could result in a failure to maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) and Quality System Requirements (QSR), or those of foreign regulators or notified bodies, which is necessary to continue manufacturing of our drug products, materials or drug substances. Other problems that may be encountered include: • the need to make necessary modifications to maintain a qualified and facility; • difficulties with production and yields, including manufacturing and completing all required release testing on a timely basis to meet demand; • quality control and assurance problems related to, among other things, in-process monitoring and controls, and release and stability testing of our drug product, or materials and drug substances; • casualty damage to a facility; and • shortages of qualified personnel. Such a failure could result in product production and shipment delays or an inability to obtain materials or drug substance supplies. 40 Table of Contents We currently manufacture our SURFAXIN drug product at our manufacturing operations in Totowa, NJ (Totowa Facility). We manufacture our lyophilized KL4 surfactant, WARMING CRADLE dry-block heaters and AFECTAIR aerosol-conducting airway connectors with CMOs. In the past, we have experienced manufacturing or quality control problems and such problems may again occur, at our Totowa Facility or at the facilities of a CMO or a manufacturer of our drug substances and materials suppliers. Such problems may in the particular circumstance require potentially complex, time-consuming and costly comprehensive investigations to determine the root causes of such problems and may require detailed and time-consuming remediation efforts, which can further delay a return to normal manufacturing and production activities. Any failure by our own manufacturing operations or by the manufacturing operations of any of our CMOs or suppliers to comply with cGMP or, for devices, QSR, requirements or other FDA or similar foreign regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our drug products, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture a supply of commercial SURFAXIN drug product, or our products under development, and potentially adversely affect our research activities and our business and financial condition. Any interruption of our manufacturing at the Totowa Facility could result in a shortage of our commercial drug supply of SURFAXIN. We currently do not have a back-up facility for the Totowa Facility or our CMOs, or back-up suppliers of APIs or excipients and other materials. A number of factors could cause interruptions, including: • equipment malfunctions or failures; • technology malfunctions; • interruption of material availability; • work stoppages or slowdowns; • damage to or destruction of the facility; • regional power shortages; and • product tampering. In connection with our drug product manufacturing activities, we own certain specialized manufacturing equipment, employ experienced manufacturing senior executive and managerial personnel, and continue to invest in enhanced quality systems and manufacturing capabilities. However, we do not have fully-redundant systems and equipment to respond promptly in the event of a significant loss at our or a CMO’s manufacturing operations. Under certain conditions, we may be unable to produce SURFAXIN at the required volumes or to appropriate standards, if at all. If we are unable to successfully maintain our manufacturing capabilities and at all times comply with cGMP, it will adversely affect our efforts to market and sell SURFAXIN and have an adverse effect on our sales. If the parties we depend on for supplying our active drug substances, materials and excipients as well as manufacturing-related services do not timely supply these products and services, it may delay or impair our ability to manufacture and market our approved products and execute our development plans for our pipeline products. Such delays could adversely impact our operations and financial performance. We rely on suppliers for our active drug substances, materials and excipients, and third parties for certain manufacturing-related services to manufacture drug product that meets appropriate content, quality and stability standards for commercial drug product use in preclinical programs and clinical trials and, for our approved products, commercial sales. Our ability to manufacture depends upon receiving adequate supplies and related services, which may be difficult or uneconomical to procure. Supply chain or manufacturing interruptions could negatively impact our operations and financial performance. The supply of any of our manufacturing materials may be interrupted because of supply shortages, poor vendor performance or other events outside our control, which may require us, among other things, to identify alternate vendors, which could involve a lengthy process, and result in lost sales and increased expenses. 41 Table of Contents In some cases, we are dependent upon a single supplier to provide all of our requirements for one or more of our drug substances, materials and excipients or one or more of our drug product device subcomponents, components and subassemblies. To assure compliance with cGMP requirements, we have entered into Quality Agreements with all of our suppliers of active drug substances and related materials. However, we have a requirements contract relating to continued access to active drug substances with only one provider of our drug substances. If we do not maintain manufacturing and service relationships that are important to us and are not able to identify a replacement supplier or vendor or develop our own manufacturing capabilities, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our products could be impaired or delayed and our costs could substantially increase. Even if we are able to find replacement manufacturers, suppliers and vendors when needed, we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on terms and conditions favorable to us or there could be a substantial delay before such manufacturer, vendor or supplier, or a related new facility is properly qualified and registered with the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities. The process of changing a supplier could have an adverse impact on future growth opportunities during the transition period if supplies of drug substances, materials or excipients on hand are insufficient to satisfy demand. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our development activities and our business. A catastrophic event at our Warrington, Pennsylvania facility or at our Totowa Facility or any of the facilities used by our third party-manufacturers would prevent us from producing many of our drug products candidates and/or medical devices. Our facilities consist of our headquarters in Warrington, Pennsylvania and our Totowa Facility. We maintain our analytical testing and device development laboratories in Warrington, Pennsylvania. Our Totowa Facility is specifically designed for the aseptic manufacture and filling of sterile pharmaceuticals in compliance with cGMP and is our only drug manufacturing facility. While we manufacture our SURFAXIN liquid instillate at our Totowa Facility, we depend upon third-party manufacturers to manufacture WARMING CRADLE dry-block heaters, our lyophilized KL4 surfactant, our AFECTAIR device and our CAG. All of these products are or will be manufactured at a single facility. If a catastrophic event occurred at any our facilities or the facilities of any of our third-party manufacturers, such as a fire, flood or tornado, many of those products could not be produced until the manufacturing portion of such facility was restored and cleared by the FDA. With respect to our Totowa Facility, we maintain a disaster plan to minimize the effects of such a catastrophe, and we have obtained insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses. However, there can be no assurance that any such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. For the development and, if approved, commercialization of AEROSURF, we will depend in large measure upon the manufacturers and assemblers of our CAG devices. If we are unable to identify qualified manufacturers and assemblers, the timeline of our plans for the development and, if approved, commercialization of AEROSURF and any other aerosolized KL4 surfactant products, could suffer. We are exposed to similar risks with respect to the manufacture of our AFECTAIR devices. In connection with the development of AEROSURF, which is a combination drug/device product that produces our aerosolized KL4 surfactant, we plan to rely on CMOs to manufacture and assemble the CAG and all subcomponents of the CAG to support our preclinical experiments, planned clinical trials and, if approved, commercial device. The CAG device includes an aerosol control unit and a disposable ADP. The ADP includes the critical drug product-contact components that are either cleaned or manufactured in an environmentally-controlled, clean area. The control unit and ADPs are assembled and packaged in a clean area. Each of the ADP devices is tested for conformance to designated product specifications during assembly and each of the assembled control units must be quality control tested prior to release and monitored for conformance to designated product specifications. 42 Table of Contents We have worked with Battelle to develop an optimized CAG device to support our phase 2 clinical program. As with many device development initiatives, there is a risk that, even if we are able to finalize specifications for a CAG system that is suitable for use in a phase 3 trial and, if approved, commercial applications, we may have difficulty identifying manufacturers that are able to consistently manufacture and assemble the subcomponents of our CAG systems to our specified standards. In addition, we may not be able to identify qualified additional or replacement manufacturers and assemblers to manufacture subcomponents and assemble our optimized CAG system and, if developed, later versions of our CAG systems, or we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on terms and conditions favorable and acceptable to us. In addition, the manufacturers and assemblers that we identify may be unable to timely comply with FDA, or other foreign regulatory agency, regulatory manufacturing requirements. If we do not successfully identify and enter into contractual agreements with manufacturers and assemblers that have the required expertise to produce our CAG devices as and when needed, it will adversely affect our timeline for the development and, if approved, commercialization of our aerosolized KL4 surfactant, including AEROSURF. We are exposed to similar risks in the manufacture of our AFECTAIR device. We are reliant on our CMO for, among other things, the manufacture, packaging and labeling of our AFECTAIR device. These activities must be performed to specifications and in compliance with the regulations of the FDA and foreign regulators. In the event of any release of defective product, our CMO is obligated to cooperate with us, including for those defects that result in product recalls or other similar events. If our CMO is unable to manufacture to our specifications, or if our CMO fails to comply with the regulations of the FDA or foreign regulators, it could have a material adverse effect on our development and commercial activities and our financial condition and prospects. Issues with product quality could have an adverse effect on our business, subject us to regulatory actions and costly litigation and cause a loss of customer confidence in our products or us. Our success depends upon the quality of our products. Our future revenues will depend upon our ability to develop, maintain, and continuously improve our quality management system, including an objective and systematic process for monitoring and the evaluation of key process indicators. Quality and safety issues may occur with respect to any of our products. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to support our development and commercialization activities. Third-party suppliers are required to comply with our quality standards. Failure of a third-party supplier to provide compliant raw materials or supplies could result in delays or other quality-related issues. A quality or safety issue could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals and licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. An inability to address a quality or safety issue in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence in our current or future products or us, which may result in the loss of sales and difficulty in commercializing our products. Medical device product inadequacies could lead to recalls and harm our reputation, business and financial results. The design, manufacture and marketing of our medical device products involve certain inherent risks. Our products must be designed, manufactured and marketed to specific product specifications. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products can lead to injury or other adverse events. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. 43 Table of Contents We also may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining marketing authorization, if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered and we cannot provide assurance that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise following any regulatory clearance. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a mandatory recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, initiate a field alert or action, known as a recall, for a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. We are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification to the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulation, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that may cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of our similar devices were to recur. If we fail to report these events to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, the FDA could take enforcement action against us. Any such adverse event involving our products also could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. Marketing authorization to promote, manufacture and/or sell our products will be limited and subject to continuing review. We have successfully registered our AFECTAIR device in the U.S. This registration does not include substantial claims with respect to potential use or efficacy. If we register this product in the European Union (EU), such clearance will be subject to limitations on the uses for which the product may be marketed and reduce our potential to successfully commercialize the product and generate revenue from the product. Similarly, although our label for SURFAXIN contains more information, including data from our pivotal phase 3 clinical trial, there are limitations that affect the manner in which we may market and sell our SURFAXIN drug product. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. If the FDA were to determine that our promotional materials, labeling, training or other marketing or educational activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could direct us to cease or modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to serious regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities could take action if they consider our training or other promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Due to these legal constraints, our marketing and sales efforts will have to focus on the general technical attributes and benefits of AFECTAIR and any FDA-cleared indications for use. We have conducted a series of studies, and plan to conduct further studies, evaluating the utility of AFECTAIR in delivering specific inhaled therapies, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful, or even if successful, that we will be able to expand our label to include the additional indications. For SURFAXIN, our marketing and sales efforts will have to be based on our label, although there is other data and information available that speaks to the benefits of our KL4 surfactants. 44 Table of Contents In addition, for both our AFECTAIR device and SURFAXIN, we will have to comply with reporting requirements applicable to medical devices and drug products, including the reporting of adverse events and device malfunctions related to our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems or failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market or regulatory enforcement actions. Failure in our information technology systems could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities. As we prepare for the commercialization of our first approved products, we will need extensive information technology (IT) systems in virtually all aspects of our business, including billing, customer service, logistics and management of clinical trial and medical data management. In selecting the appropriate software packages and systems to manage and support our activities, we will consider both in-house development and specialty software and system packages offered by third party vendors, service providers and consultants. The systems we select may not be adequate to meet our needs or may fail to perform to the specified requirements. We may be required to seek other sources of system support, which would increase our costs and potentially delay our implementation of necessary activities. There can be no assurance that the systems that we select or choose to develop will be adequate to our needs, that they will perform to our requirements or that we will be successful in integrating them into our operations. In addition, our technology systems are potentially vulnerable to breakdown or other interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction, unauthorized access and other events. Our success will depend, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems. IT systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. They also may be subject to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses, unauthorized tampering and similar disruptive problems. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Along with our new systems, we plan to take precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems. Nevertheless, we may experience damages to our systems, system failures and interruptions and unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, and our data could be compromised. There can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent significant breakdowns, breaches in our systems or other cyber incidents that could have a material adverse effect upon our reputation, business, operations or financial condition of the company. In addition, there can be no assurances that a significant implementation issue may not arise as we continue to implement new systems and consolidate or replace existing (legacy) systems. If we experience systems problems, or if the systems we implement do not meet our expectations, they may interrupt our ability to operate. If we experience systems problems, or if we experience unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, it could adversely affect our reputation, result in a loss of customers and revenues and cause us to suffer financial damage, including significant costs to alleviate or eliminate the problem. 45 Table of Contents Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase our common stock, including pursuant to our ATM Program, stock incentive plans and upon the exercise of outstanding securities exercisable for shares of our common stock, could result in substantial additional dilution of our stockholders, cause our stock price to fall and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. We will require additional capital to continue to execute our business plan and advance our research and development efforts. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the issuance of additional equity securities and through the exercise of outstanding warrants, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell shares of our common stock in one or more transactions at prices that may be at a discount to the then-current market value of our common stock and on such other terms and conditions as we may determine from time to time. Any such transaction could result in substantial dilution of our existing stockholders. If we sell shares of our common stock in more than one transaction, stockholders who purchase our common stock may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. Such sales could also cause a drop in the market price of our common stock. The issuance of shares of our common stock under the ATM Program, the issuance of shares upon exercise of outstanding warrants, including those issued to Deerfield in connection with the Deerfield Loan, will have a dilutive impact on our other stockholders and the issuance, or even potential issuance, of such shares could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. If, during the term of certain of our warrants, we declare or make any dividend or other distribution of our assets to holders of shares of our common stock, by way of return of capital or otherwise (including any distribution of cash, stock or other securities, property or options by way of a dividend, spin off, reclassification, corporate rearrangement or other similar transaction), then the exercise price of such warrants may adjust downward and the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants would increase. In addition, in February 2011, we issued five-year warrants that contain an anti-dilution provision that, subject to certain exclusions, potentially adjusts the exercise price of these warrants upon the issuance of securities at prices lower than the warrant exercise price. For the purpose of valuing securities that we may issue in the future in unit offerings, this anti-dilution provision values the warrant portion of a unit offering based on a Black Scholes pricing model. When such Black Scholes value is subtracted from the actual per-unit price of the offering, per-share value of the shares issued in such unit offering is decreased for the purposes of the anti-dilution provision. If we issue shares, units, or warrants in a financing that triggers the anti-dilution provision of these warrants, the exercise price of the February 2011 five-year warrants will be lowered thereby, increasing the likelihood that such warrants would be exercised. As a result of such warrant adjustments, we may be required to issue more shares of common stock, or shares at lower prices, than previously anticipated, which could result in further dilution of our existing stockholders. We filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC on Form S-3 (File No. 333-174786) on June 8, 2011 (which was declared effective shortly thereafter) for the proposed offering from time to time of up to $200 million of our securities, including common stock, preferred stock, varying forms of debt and warrant securities, or any combination of the foregoing. We have issued securities pursuant to this shelf registration statement on several occasions, and may do so again in the future in response to market conditions or other circumstances on terms and conditions that will be determined at such time. To provide flexibility and support any future transactions we may undertake, in 2014, we plan to replace this registration statement, which expires in June 2014, with a new universal shelf registration statement. 46 Table of Contents As of March 7, 2014, we had 84,696,919 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, approximately (i) 14.8 million shares of our common stock were reserved for potential issuance upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, (ii) 5.4 million shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans, and (iii) 166,243 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our 401(k) Plan. The exercise of stock options and other securities could cause our stockholders to experience substantial dilution. Moreover, holders of our stock options and warrants are likely to exercise them, if ever, at a time when we otherwise could obtain a price for the sale of our securities that is higher than the exercise price per security of the options or warrants. Such exercises, or the possibility of such exercises, may impede our efforts to obtain additional financing through the sale of additional securities or make such financing more costly. It may also reduce the price of our common stock. The market price of our stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our common stock, like that of many other development stage pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, has been and is likely to be volatile. In addition to general economic, political and market conditions, the price and trading volume of our stock could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: • announcements of the results of clinical trials by us or our competitors; • patient adverse reactions to our products; • governmental approvals, delays in expected governmental approvals or withdrawals of any prior governmental approvals or public or regulatory agency concerns regarding the safety or effectiveness of our products; • changes in the U.S. or foreign regulatory policy during the period of product development; • changes in the U.S. or foreign political environment and the passage of laws, including tax, environmental or other laws, affecting the product development business; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including any third-party challenges of our intellectual property rights; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • announcements of new products or new contracts by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results due to the level of development expenses and other factors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our earnings meet or exceed the estimates; • conditions and trends in the pharmaceutical and other industries; • new accounting standards; and • the occurrence of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other public filings. Our common stock is listed for quotation on The Nasdaq Capital Market®. During the 12-month period ended December 31, 2013, the price of our common stock ranged between $1.50 and $3.05. We expect the price of our common stock to remain volatile. The average daily trading volume in our common stock varies significantly. For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013, the average daily trading volume in our common stock was approximately 549,650 shares, and the average number of transactions per day was approximately 1,502. The instability observed in our daily volume and number of transactions per day may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares in the public market at prevailing prices. 47 Table of Contents In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of the securities of companies in our industry, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies in our industry. Even if securities class actions that may be filed against us in the future were ultimately determined to be meritless or unsuccessful, they would involve substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could negatively affect our business. If we fail to adhere to the strict listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market, we may be subject to delisting. As a result, our stock price may decline and our common stock may be delisted. If our stock were no longer listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market, the liquidity of our securities likely would be impaired. Our common stock currently trades on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol DSCO. If we fail to adhere to the market’s strict listing criteria, our stock may be delisted. This could potentially impair the liquidity of our securities not only in the number of shares that could be bought and sold at a given price, which might be depressed by the relative illiquidity, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and the potential reduction in media coverage. As a result, an investor might find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock. We believe that current and prospective investors would view an investment in our common stock more favorably if it continues to be listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market. Any failure at any time to meet the continuing The Nasdaq Capital Market listing requirements could have an adverse impact on the value of and trading activity in our common stock. We expect to face uncertainty over reimbursement and healthcare reform. In both the U.S. and other countries, sales of our products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, which include governmental health administration authorities, managed care providers and private health insurers. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly challenge the price and examine the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Moreover, the current political environment in the U.S. and abroad may result in the passage of significant legislation that could, among other things, restructure the markets in which we operate and restrict pricing strategies of drug development companies. If, for example, price restrictions were placed on the distribution of our drugs, we may be forced to curtail development of our pipeline products and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we succeed in commercializing our drug products, uncertainties regarding health care policy, legislation and regulation, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in quantities or at prices that will enable us to achieve profitability. To obtain reimbursement from a third-party payer, it must determine that our drug product is a covered benefit under its health plan, which is likely to require a determination that our product is: • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining a determination that a product is a covered benefit may be a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data about our products to each payer. We may not be able to provide sufficient data to gain coverage. Even when a payer determines that a product is covered, the payer may impose limitations that preclude payment for some uses that are approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Cost-containment measures, if implemented to affect the coverage or reimbursement of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products profitably. Moreover, coverage does not imply that any product will be covered in all cases or that reimbursement will be available at a rate that would permit a health care provider to cover its costs of using our product. 48 Table of Contents Prices in many countries, including many in Europe, are subject to local regulation and certain pharmaceutical products may be subject to price controls in several of the world’s principal markets, including many countries within the EU. In the U.S., where pricing levels for our products are substantially established by third-party payers, if payers reduce the amount of reimbursement for a product, it may cause groups or individuals dispensing the product to discontinue administration of the product, to administer lower doses, to substitute lower cost products or to seek additional price-related concessions. These actions could have a negative effect on our financial results, particularly in cases where our products command a premium price in the marketplace. The existence of direct and indirect price controls and pressures over our products could materially adversely affect our financial prospects and performance. The implementation of the 2010 Health Care Reform Law in the U.S. may adversely affect our business. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010, generally known as the Health Care Reform Law, significantly expands health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans and changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. We expect expansion of access to health insurance may increase the demand for our products, but other provisions of the Health Care Reform Law could affect us adversely. We also expect that further federal and state proposals for healthcare reform are likely. The changes contemplated by the health care reform law are subject to rule-making and implementation timelines that extend for several years, and this uncertainty limits our ability to forecast changes that may occur in the future. However, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Health Care Reform Law includes provisions, referred to as the federal “Open Payments” law (previously referred to as the “Sunshine Law”), that establish new reporting and disclosure requirements for pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. Under the law, pharmaceutical and device manufacturers are required to annually report various types of payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals. Implementation of the sunshine provisions has been subject to delay by the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Under the current regime, applicable manufacturers were to begin tracking relevant transfer-of-value data in August 2013, and must report data collected between August 1 and the end of 2013 to CMS in a two-phased approach by March 31, and May 31, 2014, respectively. CMS will publish the data on a public website later in the year. Inaccurate or incomplete reports may be subject to enforcement. Like the federal Sunshine Law, several states have existing laws that require manufacturers to report transfers of value to select healthcare providers licensed within the state, or even go so far as to prohibit certain marketing related activities. Other states, such as California, Nevada, Massachusetts and Connecticut, require pharmaceutical and/or device companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. In others, it is possible that we will be subject to the state’s reporting requirements and prohibitions. Compliance activities with respect to these measures could increase our costs and adversely affect business operations. The Health Care Reform Law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices by manufacturers and importers beginning in 2013, and a fee on branded prescription drugs that was implemented in 2011, both of which may affect sales of our products. As U.S. net sales are expected to be a significant portion of our worldwide net sales in the coming years, this additional tax burden may have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows. The Health Care Reform Law also mandates pharmacy benefit manager transparency regarding rebates, discounts and price concessions with respect to drug benefits under Medicare Part D, and in 2014 with respect to drug benefits offered through qualified health plans offered through state exchanges, which could affect pricing and competition. 49 Table of Contents Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to potential fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we plan to do business, including the U.S. The Health Care Reform Law establishes the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing Medicare cost growth while preserving quality. These proposals automatically will be implemented unless Congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. Further, the legislation calls for a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation that will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. The legislation provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The legislation also permits the establishment of accountable care organizations, a new healthcare delivery model. While the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and may result in significant change. Our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which will likely result in significant legal and accounting expense and diversion of management resources, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and the market price of our stock will likely decline. We are required by the SEC to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls. Any failure to maintain internal controls could adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. If we do not file our financial statements on a timely basis as required by the SEC and The Nasdaq Capital Market, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, there could result a material adverse effect on our business. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that material weaknesses or restatements of financial results will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. In addition, in the future our controls and procedures may no longer be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements. Responding to inquiries from the SEC or The Nasdaq Capital Market, regardless of the outcome, are likely to consume a significant amount of our management resources and cause us to incur significant legal and accounting expense. Further, many companies that have restated their historical financial statements have experienced a decline in stock price and related stockholder lawsuits. 50 Table of Contents We depend upon key employees and consultants in a competitive market for skilled personnel. If we or our strategic partners or collaborators are unable to attract and retain key personnel, it could adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products. As we prepared for the commercial introduction of SURFAXIN, we implemented a plan to hire additional qualified personnel to support (i) the commercial introduction of SURFAXIN and AFECTAIR, and (ii) the advancement of our AEROSURF and, potentially, SURFAXIN LS development programs. In particular, we established our field-based sales and marketing and medical affairs organizations, and continue to invest in our regulatory affairs, quality control and assurance and administrative capabilities. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is significant and attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and any failure to do so successfully may have a material adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent upon the members of our executive management team and our directors, as well as our scientific advisory board members, consultants and collaborating scientists. Many of these individuals have been involved with us for many years, have played integral roles in our progress and we believe that they continue to provide value to us. A loss of any of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on aspects of our business and clinical development and regulatory programs. In March 2013, we entered into employment agreements with five executive officers, including the President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer; the Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary; the Senior Vice President, Human Resources; and the Senior Vice President, Research and Development. These agreements expire on March 31, 2015, subject to automatic renewal for additional one-year periods, unless a party provides notice of non-renewal at least 90 days in advance. In addition, we recently entered into new agreements with five other officers that also expire on March 31, 2015. The loss of services from any of our executives could significantly adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Further, we do not maintain key man life insurance. As we proceed with the commercial introduction of our approved products and undertake our AEROSURF phase 2 clinical program, we need to attract and retain highly-qualified personnel to join our management, commercial, medical affairs and development teams, although there can be no assurances that we will be successful in that endeavor. We may be unable to attract and retain necessary executive talent. Our future success also will depend in part on the continued service of our key scientific and management personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. While we attempt to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel at all levels in our organization, many of our competitors have greater resources and more experience than we do, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel. We may experience intense competition for qualified personnel and the existence of non-competition agreements between prospective employees and their former employers may prevent us from hiring those individuals or subject us to lawsuits brought by their former employers. 51 Table of Contents Our industry is highly competitive and we have less capital and resources than many of our competitors, which may give them an advantage in developing and marketing products similar to ours or make our products obsolete. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological innovation and evolving industry standards. We compete with numerous existing companies in many ways. We need to successfully introduce new products to achieve our strategic business objectives. The development and acquisition of innovative products and technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patients’ and clinicians’ ease of use and cost-effectiveness involve significant technical and business risks. The success of new product offerings will depend on many factors, including our ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, adapt to new technologies, obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, demonstrate satisfactory clinical results, manufacture products in an economic and timely manner, and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. If we cannot successfully introduce new products, adapt to changing technologies or anticipate changes in our current and potential customers’ requirements, our products may become obsolete and our business could suffer. We intend to market our products under development for the treatment of diseases for which other technologies and treatments are rapidly developing and, consequently, we expect new companies to enter our industry and that competition in the industry will increase. Many of these companies have substantially greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial, technological, personnel and managerial resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in: • developing products; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals or products; and • manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA or foreign regulatory approval or commercializing products before us. Our competitors may successfully secure regulatory exclusivities in various markets, which could have the effect of barring us or limiting our ability to market our products in such markets. As we commence commercial product sales, we will compete against companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities that may successfully develop and commercialize products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. In addition, developments by our competitors may render our drug product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We also face, and will continue to face, competition from colleges, universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations. These competitors frequently aggressively seek patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technology that they have developed. Some of these technologies may compete directly with the technologies that we are developing. These institutions will also compete with us in recruiting highly qualified scientific personnel. We expect that therapeutic developments in the areas in which we are active may occur at a rapid rate and that competition will intensify as advances in this field are made. As a result, we need to continue to devote substantial resources and efforts to research and development activities. 52 Table of Contents If we cannot protect our intellectual property, other companies could use our technology in competitive products. Even if we obtain patents to protect our products, those patents may not be sufficiently broad or they may expire and others could then compete with us. We seek patent protection for our drug and device products and product candidates to prevent others from commercializing equivalent products in substantially less time and at substantially lower expense. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend in part on our ability and that of parties from whom we license technology to successfully obtain patents, defend our patents, protect our trade secrets, and otherwise prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. The patent position of companies relying upon biotechnology is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. To date, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has not adopted a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents or the degree of protection that these types of patents afford. As a result, there are risks that we may not secure rights to products or processes that appear to be patentable. The parties licensing technologies to us and we have filed various U.S. and foreign patent applications with respect to the products and technologies under our development, and the USPTO and foreign patent offices have issued patents with respect to our products and technologies. These patent applications include international applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future or those we may license from third parties may not result in the USPTO or foreign patent office issuing patents. In addition, if patent rights covering our products are not sufficiently broad, they may not provide us with sufficient proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products and technologies. Furthermore, even if the USPTO or foreign patent offices were to issue patents to us or our licensors, others may challenge the patents or circumvent the patents, or the patent office or the courts may invalidate the patents. Thus, any patents we own or license from third parties may not provide us any protection against competitors. The patents that we hold have a limited life. We have licensed a series of patents for our KL4 surfactant technology from J&J and its wholly-owned subsidiary Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation (Ortho Pharmaceutical), which are important, both individually and collectively, to our strategy of commercializing our KL4 surfactant products. These patents, which include important KL4 composition of matter claims and relevant European patents, began to expire in November 2009, and will expire on various dates ending in 2017 or, in some cases, possibly later. Of the patents that have expired, we have extended the term of our most important patent until November 2014. For our aerosolized KL4 surfactant, we hold worldwide exclusive licenses from PMUSA and PMPSA to the CAG technology for use with pulmonary surfactants together or in combination with other products for all respiratory diseases. Our exclusive license in the U.S. also extends to other (non-surfactant) drugs to treat a wide range of pediatric and adult respiratory indications in hospitals and other health care institutions. The CAG technology patents expire on various dates beginning in May 2016 and ending in 2031, or, in some cases, possibly later. We have filed, and when possible and appropriate, will file, other patent applications with respect to our products and processes in the U.S. and in foreign countries. We may not be able to develop enhanced or additional products or processes that will be patentable under patent law and, if we do enhance or develop additional products that we believe are patentable, additional patents may not be issued to us. Our technology platform is based solely on our proprietary KL4 surfactant technology, our novel CAG technology, and our novel aerosol-conducting airway connector. Our technology platform is based on the scientific rationale of using our KL4 surfactant technology, our CAG technology and our novel patient interface and related componentry to treat life-threatening respiratory disorders and to serve as the foundation for the development of novel respiratory therapies and products. Our business is dependent upon the successful development and approval of our drug product candidates and our combination drug-device products based on these technologies. Any material problems with our technology platforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. 53 Table of Contents Intellectual property rights of third parties could limit our ability to develop and market our products. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability to operate our business without infringing the patents or violating the proprietary rights of others. In certain cases, the USPTO keeps U.S. patent applications confidential while the applications are pending. As a result, we cannot determine in advance what inventions third parties may claim in their pending patent applications. We may need to defend or enforce our patent and license rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others through legal proceedings, which would be costly, unpredictable and time consuming. Even in proceedings where the outcome is favorable to us, they would likely divert substantial resources, including management time, from our other activities. Moreover, any adverse determination could subject us to significant liability or require us to seek licenses that third parties might not grant to us or might only grant at rates that diminish or deplete the profitability of our products. An adverse determination could also require us to alter our products or processes or cease altogether any product sales or related research and development activities. If we cannot meet requirements under our license agreements, we could lose the rights to our products. We depend on licensing agreements with third parties to maintain the intellectual property rights to our products under development. Presently, we have licensed rights from J&J, Ortho Pharmaceutical, PMUSA, PMPSA and The Scripps Institute. These agreements require us to make payments and satisfy performance obligations to maintain our rights under these licensing agreements. All of these agreements last either throughout the life of the related patents or for a number of years after the first commercial sale of the relevant product. In addition, we are responsible for the cost of filing and prosecuting certain patent applications and maintaining certain issued patents licensed to us. If we do not meet our obligations under our license agreements in a timely manner, we could lose the rights to our proprietary technology. Finally, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies. Licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights might not be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We rely on agreements containing obligations regarding intellectual property, confidentiality and noncompetition provisions that could be breached and may be difficult to enforce. Although we take what we believe to be reasonable steps to protect our intellectual property, including the use of agreements relating to the non-disclosure of our confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets to third parties, as well as agreements that provide for disclosure and assignment to us of all rights to the ideas, developments, improvements, discoveries and inventions of our employees, consultants, advisors and research collaborators while we employ them, such agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce. We generally seek to enter into these types of agreements with consultants, advisors and research collaborators; however, to the extent that such parties apply or independently develop intellectual property in connection with any of our projects, disputes may arise concerning allocation of the related proprietary rights. Such disputes often involve significant expense and yield unpredictable results. 54 Table of Contents Moreover, although all employees enter into agreements with us that include non-compete covenants, and our five senior executive officers have agreements that include broader non-competition covenants and provide for severance payments that are contingent upon the applicable employee’s refraining from competition with us, such non-compete provisions can be difficult and costly to monitor and enforce, such that, if any should resign, we may not be successful in enforcing our noncompetition agreements with them. Despite the protective measures we employ, we still face the risk that: • agreements may be breached; • agreements may not provide adequate remedies for the applicable type of breach; • our trade secrets or proprietary know-how may otherwise become known; • our competitors may independently develop similar technology; or • our competitors may independently discover our proprietary information and trade secrets. The failure to prevail in litigation or the costs of litigation, including securities class actions, product liability claims and patent infringement claims, could harm our financial performance and business operations. We are potentially susceptible to litigation. For example, as a public company, we may be subject to claims asserting violations of securities laws. Even if such actions are found to be without merit, the potential impact of such actions, which generally seek unquantifiable damages and attorneys’ fees and expenses, is uncertain. There can be no assurance that an adverse result in any future proceeding would not have a potentially material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business activities, including the design, manufacture and marketing of our drug products and medical devices also exposes us to liability risks. Using our drug product candidates or medical devices in clinical trials may expose us to product liability claims. For our products that are approved for commercial sale, the risk of product liability claims is increased. Even if approved, our products may be subject to claims resulting from unintended effects that result in injury or death. Product liability claims alleging inadequate disclosure and warnings in our package inserts and medical device disclosures also may arise. Product liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We presently carry general liability, excess liability, products liability and property insurance coverage in amounts that are customary for companies in our industry of comparable size and level of activity. However, our insurance policies contain various deductibles, limitations and exclusions from coverage, and in any event might not fully cover any potential claims. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. 55 Table of Contents We may need to obtain additional product liability insurance coverage, including with locally-authorized insurers licensed in countries where we market our approved products or conduct our clinical trials, before initiating clinical trials; however, such insurance is expensive and may not be available when we need it. In the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance, with acceptable limits and retentions, at an acceptable cost. Any product, general liability or product liability claim, even if such claim is within the limits of our insurance coverage or meritless and/or unsuccessful, could adversely affect the availability or cost of insurance generally and our cash available for other purposes, such as research and development. In addition, such claims could result in: • uninsured expenses related to defense or payment of substantial monetary awards to claimants; • a decrease in demand for our drug product candidates; • damage to our reputation; and • an inability to complete clinical trial programs or to commercialize our drug product candidates, if approved. Moreover, the existence of a product liability claim could affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, as the USPTO keeps U.S. patent applications confidential in certain cases while the applications are pending, we cannot ensure that our products or methods do not infringe upon the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are applied for and issued, the risk increases that our patents or patent applications for our KL4 surfactant product candidates or our medical device and combination drug/device products may give rise to a declaration of interference by the USPTO, or to administrative proceedings in foreign patent offices, or that our activities lead to claims of patent infringement by other companies, institutions or individuals. These entities or persons could bring legal proceedings against us seeking to invalidate our patents, obtain substantial damages or enjoin us from conducting research and development activities. Our corporate compliance program cannot ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations affecting our activities in the jurisdictions in which we may sell our products, if approved, and a failure to comply with such regulations or prevail in litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. Many of our activities, including the research, development, manufacture, sale and marketing of our products, are subject to extensive laws and regulation, including without limitation, health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance policy and oversight program based upon what we understand to be current industry best practices, but we cannot assure you that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such investigations, actions or lawsuits are instituted against us, and if we are not successful in defending or disposing of them without liability, such investigations, actions or lawsuits could result in the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions and could otherwise have a significant impact on our business. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Amended and Restated By-Laws, our Shareholder Rights Agreement and Delaware law could defer a change of our management and thereby discourage or delay offers to acquire us. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Amended and Restated By-Laws, our Shareholder Rights Agreement and Delaware law may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or for our stockholders to remove existing management, and might discourage a third-party from offering to acquire us, even if a change in control or in management would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation allows us to issue shares of preferred stock without any vote or further action by our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, before the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, could issue large blocks of preferred stock. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Agreement, which under certain circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third parties to acquire control of us without prior approval of our Board of Directors, thereby discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. This agreement expired in February 2014. The rights issued under the Shareholder Rights Agreement would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. 56 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 