Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following material risks facing the Company. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We Compete in a Monopolistic Marketplace We operate in an environment that is dominated by the major syringe manufacturer in the United States, BD. We believe that its monopolistic business practices continue despite its paying the Company $100 million to settle a lawsuit for anticompetitive practices, business disparagement, and tortious interference. Although we made limited progress in some areas, such as the alternate care and international markets, our volumes are not as high as they should be given the nature and quality of our product, the federal and state legislation requiring use of safe needle devices, and the Senate Subcommittee hearings on GPOs. We Have Generally Been Unable to Gain Sufficient Market Access to Achieve Profitable Operations Since our formation, we have incurred net operating losses in all fiscal quarters except the fourth quarter of 2005 and may experience operating losses in the future. If we are unable to gain sufficient market access and market share, we will be unable to continue to finance research and development as well as support operations and expansion of production. Our Patent Protection Is Aging Our main competitive strength is our technology. As it ages (and the associated patent life expires), our competitive position in the marketplace will weaken. The initial patents protecting our revolutionary spring action syringe will expire beginning in May 2015. Patent life may be extended, not through the original patents, but related improvements. Eventually, however, our patent protection may decrease and we will be vulnerable to other competitors utilizing our technology. We Are Vulnerable to New Technologies Because we have a narrow focus on a particular product line and technology (retractable needles), we are vulnerable to the development of superior competing products and to changes in technology which could eliminate or reduce the need for our products. If a superior technology is created, the demand for our product could greatly diminish. We May Lack Future Financial Resources to Capture Increased Market Share The three leading manufacturers of hypodermic syringes and blood collection products are BD with a worldwide market share in the safety syringe market of approximately 68 percent, Sherwood with approximately 18 percent, and Terumo with a market share of approximately 4 percent. All three companies offer both standard syringes and at least one safety syringe alternative. BD also offers a retractable syringe. BD and Sherwood have greater financial resources, larger and more established sales and marketing and distribution organizations, and greater market influence, including long-term contracts with GPOs. These competitors may be able to use these resources to improve their products through research and acquisitions or develop new products, which may compete more effectively with our products. If our competitors choose to use their resources to create products superior to ours, we may be unable to sell our products and the ability of our company to continue would be weakened. 9 Table of Contents Fluctuations in Supplies of Inventory Could Temporarily Increase Costs Fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and inventory and the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships could result in the need to manufacture all (as opposed to one-half) of the products in the United States. This could temporarily increase unit costs as we ramp up domestic production. We Face Inherent Product Liability Risks As a manufacturer and provider of safety needle products, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event of product failure or claim of harm caused by product operation. Product failure could result in injury to the patient or loss of blood and could expose healthcare workers to the risk of blood borne pathogens. If any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall those products. If a product liability claim is made and damages are in excess of our product liability coverage, our competitive position could be weakened by the amount of money we could be required to pay to compensate those injured by our products. We have products liability coverage with St. Paul Insurance Company covering up to $1,000,000 per occurrence, with coverage up to $2,000,000 in the aggregate. Each claim is subject to a $10,000 deductible. Additionally, we have additional products liability protection under an Umbrella Liability Policy. This policy provides an additional $10,000,000 per occurrence and aggregate limits in the event claims exceed the primary commercial general liability policy limit. We have not had any product liability claims. We Have Limited Access to the Capital Markets The volume of trading in our Common Stock on the American Stock Exchange (the “AMEX”) is low. Accordingly, it is unclear if there is any significant market for our shares. This may reduce our ability to raise cash through public or private offerings in the future. Our Company Is Controlled by Two Shareholders Thomas J. Shaw, our President and a Director, and Lillian E. Salerno, a consultant to the Company, own 47.6% and 10.8%, respectively, of the Common Stock as of March 1, 2006. These two shareholders will, therefore, have the ability to direct our operations and financial affairs and to substantially influence the election of members of our Board of Directors. The interests of these persons may not always coincide with the Company’s interests or the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership, for example, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving the Company or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. Of the remaining 9,782,384 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 1, 2006, Officers and Directors own 32,500 of the shares. Current Investigations Could Result in Beneficial Legislation Increasing Our Access to the Hospital Market On March 15, 2006, the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights held its fourth hearing on the anti-competitive practices of GPOs. As the Senate’s four-year inquiry has revealed, these purchasing cartels, in collusion with the dominant medical supply manufacturers, have harmed competition, stifled innovation, and increased the cost of healthcare. Senate testimony, government studies, and media reports have exposed a long list of abuses, including conflicts of interest, kickbacks, sole-source and long-term contracts, and other exclusionary practices that have kept patients and healthcare workers in GPO-member hospitals from gaining access to better, safer, and more cost-effective medical products. The U. S. Department of Justice and the Connecticut Attorney General are also conducting wide-ranging criminal investigations of GPO practices and have issued subpoenas to many of the nation’s largest medical suppliers, GPOs, and hospital systems. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable and none. 