Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. Because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. The matters relating to the investigation by the Special Committee of our Board of Directors and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements may result in additional SEC inquiries, litigation and governmental enforcement actions. In June 2006, our Board of Directors directed a Special Committee consisting of three independent members of the Board of Directors to conduct an independent investigation relating to our past stock option grants. The Special Committee was assisted in the investigation by outside independent legal counsel and independent accountants. On December 11, 2006, we announced that the Special Committee preliminarily found that there were improprieties in the process of granting and documenting stock options and that incorrect measurement dates for certain stock option grants were used for financial accounting purposes. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 2 “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, as a result of the internal review and independent investigation, management has concluded, and the Audit Committee agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock-based compensation awards made in certain prior periods. As a result, we have recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard to certain past stock-based awards, and we have restated certain previously filed financial statements included in this Form 10-K. The internal review, the independent investigation, and related activities have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted management’s attention from our business, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock-based compensation awards, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. 19 Our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. As described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in state and federal courts against our directors and certain of our executive officers pertaining to, among other things, allegations relating to stock option grants. In addition, we have responded to the previously disclosed subpoenas and informal requests for documents and additional information from these agencies. We intend to continue to fully cooperate with these investigations. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock compensation practices. The resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and will distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages, fines or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In August 2006, we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating that, as a result of the delayed filing of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 31, 2006 (the “Third Quarter Form 10-Q”), we were not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and were therefore subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. On December 29, 2006, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel granted our request for continued listing, subject to our filing of the Third Quarter Form 10-Q, and any required restatements, with the SEC by March 19, 2007, holding our combined 2005 and 2006 annual meeting by March 27, 2006 and providing certain information regarding the Special Committee’s independent investigation to NASDAQ by on or about January 15, 2007, which we have provided. We anticipate filing our Third Quarter Form 10-Q with the SEC promptly following the filing of this Form 10-K. We anticipate holding our annual meeting on or about March 23, 2007. We believe that when we hold our combined 2005 and 2006 annual meeting, we will have remedied our non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and other applicable Marketplace Rules, subject to NASDAQ’s affirmative completion of our compliance protocols. However, if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock-based compensation awards, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports that might result in delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market. We have incurred significant losses for the year ended October 31, 2006, and we may incur future losses. Although we achieved increasing levels of revenue and generated profits in each of the years ended October 31, 2002 through 2005, we incurred a significant loss for the year ended October 31, 2006. We expect to incur increased levels of expenses associated with significant product development and licensing commitments over the next year in connection with the diversification of our product offerings and the transition to next-generation platforms. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses until such time as we generate sufficient levels of revenue to offset these increased costs. Continued losses could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business. Our business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, on the continued availability of existing video game platforms, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony’s PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PSP; and Microsoft’s Xbox and Xbox 360. The success of our business is driven in large part by the availability of an adequate supply of current generation video game platforms (such as the PlayStation 2), the adequate supply, and, increasingly, the success of new video game hardware systems (such as the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and the Wii), our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop 20 commercially successful products for these platforms. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. A new platform for which we are developing products may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. Alternatively, a platform for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than we had initially anticipated, causing us to miss a meaningful revenue opportunity. If the platforms for which we are developing products are not available in adequate quantities to meet consumer demand or are lower than our expectations, or do not attain wide market acceptance, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the investments we have made in developing our products, and our financial performance will be harmed. We expect the average price of current generation software titles to continue to decline. Consumer demand for software for current generation platforms has declined as newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance. As the gaming software industry transitions to next-generation platforms, we expect few, if any, current generation titles will be able to command premium price points and we expect that these titles will be subject to price reductions earlier in their product life cycles than we have seen in prior years. As a result, we have reduced prices for our current generation software titles and we expect to continue to reduce prices for our current generation software titles which will have a negative impact on our operating results. The market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles. Delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles and frequent introductions of new products. New products may not achieve significant market acceptance or generate sufficient sales to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. The life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. Because revenues associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from expectations. We have experienced delays in product releases and in fiscal 2005 our revenue was negatively impacted by product returns due to the re-rating by the ESRB of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas from “M” (age 17 and older) to “AO” (age 18 and older). Such delays and disruptions may occur in the future. We are dependent on the future success of our Grand Theft Auto products and we must continue to publish “hit” titles in order to successfully compete in our industry. Grand Theft Auto and certain of our other titles are “hit” products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. If we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful hit titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our “hit” titles, our revenues and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. For the years ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 our Grand Theft Auto titles accounted for 22.4%, 38.2% and 34.3% of our total revenue, respectively, and our ten best selling titles accounted for approximately 38.4%, 48.2% and 46.3% of our net revenues, respectively. In addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. Hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products and services to fall below our expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value (such as pay-for play or subscription-based models), or if we do 21 not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability will decline. Our software titles compete for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. We face increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. Our publishing business competes with all other sources of information and entertainment, including television, movies, music, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as new streaming capabilities and downloading entertainment via the Internet, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and presents challenges as our audience becomes more fragmented. The increasing number of choices available to consumers could negatively impact demand for our products, or require us to use additional resources to develop more sophisticated software, or both. If we do not respond effectively to increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, it could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and revenues. If we fail to retain creative and product development personnel, our business could be seriously harmed. We are highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our Rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of Grand Theft Auto and other titles. Although we entered into employment agreements with our key Rockstar employees, and we have granted them incentives including an internal royalty program based on sales of Rockstar published products, we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. The compensation arrangements with such Rockstar employees could result in increased expenses and have a negative impact on our operating results. In addition, if one or more of these individuals leave our company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development and delays in bringing products to market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We depend on our key management personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management. The loss of the services of our executive officers could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, failure to continue to attract and retain qualified management personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our ability to acquire licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, impacts our revenue and profitability. Competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. Many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. For example, our 2K Sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players’ associations. Similarly, some of our other titles are based on key film and television licenses. Competition for these licenses is intense. If we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses with significant commercial value, our revenues and profitability will decline significantly. Competition for these licenses may also drive up the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs. 22 Our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. Our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. We rely on third-party software developers for the development of certain of our titles. Quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. Software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. Due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. We have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. These agreements typically require us to make advance payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. Our advance payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. Software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. Future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. If we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and materially adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. We depend on third-party software developers and our internal development studios to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. The development cycle for new titles ranges from twelve to thirty-six months and is expected to increase in connection with the development of next-generation software. After development of a product, it may take between nine to twelve additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. If developers experience financial difficulties, additional costs or unanticipated development delays, we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. Certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties in the event that we fail to meet agreed upon software release dates. Additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. Any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. The interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive both for our publishing and distribution operations. We compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. Each of these competitors has the financial resources to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising campaigns, particularly for television spots. These companies may also increase their own software development efforts or focus on developing software products for third-party platforms. We also compete with domestic game publishers such as Electronic Arts, Activision, THQ, Midway Games and Atari and international publishers, such as SEGA, Vivendi, Ubisoft, SCi Entertainment, Capcom, Konami and Namco-Bondai. As our business is driven by hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. Some of our competitors 23 have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. Our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and forms of entertainment which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. Our distribution business also operates in a highly competitive environment. Competition is based primarily on breadth, availability and quality of product lines; price; terms and conditions of sale; credit terms and availability; speed and accuracy of delivery; and effectiveness of sales and marketing programs. Our competitors include regional, national and international distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers and software publishers. We may lose market share or be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to our competitors. Our distribution business has been adversely affected by lower sales volume of software titles, a decrease in average selling prices of interactive entertainment products as our industry transitions to next-generation technology and increased competition in the value software market. A number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the Internet. Future increased consumer acceptance and increases in the availability of online games or technological advances in online game software sales or the Internet could result in a decline in platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products. Direct sales of software over the Internet by our competitors could materially adversely affect our distribution business. Increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. Retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources, and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. Competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable levels of sales of our titles. Competitors with more extensive lines and popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. Accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. A substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. Sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 49.4% and 40.7% of our net revenues, for the year ended October 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, with Wal-Mart, GameStop and Best Buy accounting for 15.4%, 12.6% and 10.2%, respectively, of such revenues for the year ended October 31, 2006. Our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. Certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. The loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated “AO” (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business. 24 Returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. Our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. However, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations to customers which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. We accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. While we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our published titles exceed our reserves, our revenues could decline. Failure to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis will negatively impact our cash flow. Our sales are typically made on credit. We do not hold any collateral to secure payment by our customers. As a result, we are subject to credit risks, particularly in the event that a significant amount of our receivables represent sales to a limited number of retailers or are concentrated in foreign markets. Although we continually assess the creditworthiness of our customers, which are principally large, national retailers, if we are unable to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. From time to time we purchase insurance from financial institutions on our receivables, with certain limits, to help protect us from loss in the event of a customer’s bankruptcy or insolvency. We are subject to the rating of our content by the Entertainment Software Rating Board. Failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively impact our sales as could a game re-rating. We submit our game products to the ESRB, a voluntary ratings organization that requires publishers to submit game content for rating. The ESRB system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that suggests the appropriate player age group, and content descriptor information, such as graphic violence, profanity, or sexually explicit material. The ESRB rating is printed on each game package and retailers may use the rating to restrict sales to the recommended age groups. The ESRB may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules on rating or marketing a game, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines. Certain countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. We believe that we comply with rating system requirements and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptors. In some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the expected rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. Sales of some of our titles, however, have been prohibited in certain countries. In the United States, we expect our software titles to receive ESRB ratings of “E” (age 6 and older), “E10+” (age 10 and older), “T” (age 13 and over) or “M” (age 17 and over). In addition to these ratings, the ESRB may also rate a game as “AO” (age 18 and over). Many of our Rockstar titles and certain of our 2K Games titles have been rated “M” by the ESRB. If we are unable to obtain “M” ratings as a result of changes in the ESRB’s ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. In the event any of our games are re-rated by the ESRB, we may be required to record a reserve for anticipated product returns and inventory obsolescence which could expose us to additional litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and could adversely affect our operating results. 25 We entered into a Consent Order with the Staff of the Federal Trade. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has concluded its previously reported inquiry regarding the advertising claims for Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas following the re-rating of the title by the ESRB. In July 2006, we entered into an agreement with the staff of the FTC containing a Consent Order that settled all outstanding matters pending before the FTC. Under the terms of the Consent Order, we established, and must implement, and maintain a comprehensive system reasonably designed to ensure that all content in an electronic game is considered and reviewed in preparing submissions to a U.S. rating authority. The companies also agreed to accurately represent the rating and content descriptors for games they publish and to disclose to consumers the presence of any content relevant to the rating that was not disclosed to the rating authority. If we fail to comply with the terms of the Consent Order, we could be required to pay substantial fines, penalties and judgments and our operations could be significantly harmed. We are currently in litigation that could negatively impact our financial results. We are currently named as a defendant in class actions complaints alleging consumer deception, false advertising and common law fraud, class action and derivative complaints alleging violations of certain federal securities laws, an action brought by the City Attorney of Los Angeles and actions brought by the estates of certain individuals claiming violations of State manufacturing liability and wrongful death statutes. We cannot predict the outcome of these pending matters, which could result in the imposition of significant fines and penalties and/or judgments that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant legal and other professional fees and expenses in connection with pending litigation as well as pending regulatory matters which have also diverted management’s attention from our business. See Item 3—“Legal Proceedings”. We have received requests for information from certain state and federal regulatory authorities. We have received grand jury subpoenas issued by the District Attorney of the County of New York requesting production of documents covering various periods beginning on January 1, 1997, including those relating to, among other things: the so-called “Hot Coffee” scenes in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas; the work of our Board of Directors, all Board Committees, and the Special Litigation Committee; certain acquisitions entered into by us ; billing and payment records relating to Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLC (“PWC”) and the termination of PWC as our auditors; communications to financial analysts and stockholders about acquisitions and financial results; compensation and human resources documents of certain of our directors and employees; stock-based compensation; the SEC ’s June 2006 inquiry; legal services performed for employees; corporate credit card and expense records of certain individuals; the SEC bar of our former Chief Executive Officer, Ryan Brant; and ethics, securities, and conflict of interest policies and questionnaires. We are fully cooperating and providing the documents and information called for by the subpoenas. We have also received notice from the SEC that it is conducting an informal non-public investigation into certain stock option grants made by us from January 1997 to the present. We and the Special Committee are fully cooperating with the SEC. We have also received requests for documents and information relating to Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas from certain state Attorneys General, which matters have been dormant for some time. We have also received a request for information from the Internal Revenue Service that includes a request for records relating to the grant and exercise of options and tax deductions taken by us pursuant to Internal 26 Revenue Code Section 162(m) for the period from October 31, 2000 to October 31, 2004. We are fully cooperating and providing the requested documents. These regulatory matters could divert resources away from our business, which could undermine our ability to effectively compete and seriously hurt our business and prospects. While under review, our ability to enter into capital-raising, strategic and other potential corporate transactions on favorable terms could be severely hampered. We cannot predict the outcome of these pending reviews, which could ultimately result in the imposition of significant fines and other penalties and/or judgments that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and products are subject to increasing potential legislation. The adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. Several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry, including a Senate bill, referred to as The Family Entertainment Protection Act. This bill proposes to prohibit the sale of “M” rated, “AO” rated and “Rating Pending” products to under-17 audiences. If the bill is adopted into law, it may limit the potential market for our “M” rated products, and adversely affect our operating results. Other countries, such as Germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the Internet that are stricter than current United States laws. In the United States, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing violent or sexually explicit material by prohibiting the sale of such products to under 17 or 18 audiences and proposing penalties for noncompliance, and certain states have recently sought to adopt laws regulating “M” or “AO” rated products or products otherwise depicting violent or sexually explicit materials. While such legislation has been successfully enjoined by industry and retail groups, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for our “M” rated titles. Content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products. Retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. If retailers decline to sell our “M” rated products or products containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other objectionable content generally, or if our “M” rated products are rated “AO,” we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles, which in the case of our best selling Grand Theft Auto titles could seriously hurt our business. Consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. Additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” We cannot publish our console titles without the approval of hardware licensors who are also our competitors. We are required to obtain a license from Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, who are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. Our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. As a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, and our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenues from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. If any licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if the licensor were to terminate our license for any reason, we would be unable to publish additional 27 titles for that licensor’s platform. Termination of any such agreements could seriously hurt our business and prospects. Microsoft released its next-generation hardware platform into the North American marketplace in November 2005, and each of Sony and Nintendo introduced their respective next-generation platforms into the marketplace during November 2006. Certain platform licensors have retained the right to change fee structures for online gameplay, and each licensor’s ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. Increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. We may be unable to enter into license agreements for certain next-generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. Our quarterly operating results are highly seasonal and may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. The interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters), due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday buying season. Our failure or inability to introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. The uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. In future quarters, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and the price of our stock could decline significantly. Our expansion and acquisitions may strain our operations, and we may not have sufficient financial resources to continue to expand our operations at previous levels. We have expanded through internal growth and acquisitions, which has placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We have expanded our publishing operations, significantly increased our advances to licensors and developers and manufacturing expenditures and enlarged our work force. To successfully manage this growth, we must continue to implement and improve our operating systems as well as hire, train and manage a substantial and increasing number of management, technical, marketing, administrative and other personnel. We may be unable to effectively manage our expanding and geographically dispersed operations. We have acquired rights to various properties and businesses, and we intend to continue to pursue opportunities by making selective acquisitions consistent with our business strategy. We may be unable to successfully integrate new personnel, properties or businesses into our operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate personnel, properties or businesses into our operations, we may incur significant charges. Our publishing and distribution activities require significant cash resources. We may be required to seek debt or equity financing to fund the cost of continued expansion and there is no guarantee that could obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. The issuance of equity securities would result in dilution to the interests of our stockholders. Our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, and we may fail to properly assess consumer tastes and preferences. Our business is subject to all of the risks generally associated with the entertainment industry and, accordingly, our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including 28 the popularity, price and timing of new hardware platforms being released; economic, political and military conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot be predicted. In order to plan for acquisition and promotional activities, we must anticipate and respond to rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. A decline in the popularity of certain game genres or particular platforms could cause sales of our titles to decline dramatically. The period of time necessary to develop new game titles, obtain approvals of platform licensors and produce finished products is unpredictable. During this period, consumer appeal for a particular title may decrease, causing product sales to fall short of expectations. We cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or the impact of the same on our operations or the market price for our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to audit our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and separately report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights or avoid claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights of others. We develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. Well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the Internet. Although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. With advances in technology, game content and software graphics are expected to become more realistic. As a result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. Although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others has or may occur. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. Moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. 29 Our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. The technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. As software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in products when first introduced increases. If, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenues and damage to our reputation. Gross margins relating to our distribution business have been historically narrow which increases the impact of variations in costs on our operating results. As a result of intense price competition, our gross margins in our distribution business have historically been narrow and may continue to be narrow in the future. Accordingly, slight variations in operating costs and expenses could result in losses in our distribution business from period to period. We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. A significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is comprised of personnel and facilities. In the event of a significant decline in revenues, we may not be able to exit facilities, reduce personnel, or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenues and profit. Moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. Our distribution business is dependent on suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis. Our ability to obtain particular products in required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is important to our success. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. In certain product categories, limited price concessions or return rights offered by publishers may have a bearing on the amount of product we may be willing to purchase. Our industry may experience significant hardware supply shortages from time to time due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply certain products on a timely basis. As a result, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, short-term hardware inventory shortages. Further, manufacturers or publishers who currently distribute their products through us may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, or directly to retailers. If manufacturers do not supply us with finished titles on favorable terms without delays, our operations would be materially interrupted, and we would be unable to obtain sufficient amounts of our product to sell to our customers. If we cannot obtain sufficient product supplies, our net revenues will decline and we could incur losses. We are subject to the risk that our inventory values may decline and protective terms under supplier arrangements may not adequately cover the decline in values. The interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. These changes may cause inventory to decline substantially in value over time or to become obsolete. We are exposed to inventory risk in our distribution business to the extent that supplier price concessions are not available to us on all products or quantities. In addition, suppliers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill price concession obligations. 30 We are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. Sales in international markets, primarily in the United Kingdom and other territories in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenues. Sales in international markets accounted for approximately 39.4% and 39.8%, respectively, of our net revenues for the years ended October 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks; tariffs and duties; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; shipping delays; and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. All of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. While we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile as a result of, among other things, factors affecting the industry. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Factors such as our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors and various factors affecting the interactive entertainment software industry may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. We seek to manage our business with a view to achieving long-term results, and this could have a negative effect on short-term trading. We focus on creation of shareholder value over time, and we intend to make decisions that will be consistent with this long-term view. As a result, some of our decisions, such as whether to make or discontinue operating investments, manage our balance sheet and capital structure, or pursue or discontinue strategic initiatives, may be in conflict with the objectives of short-term traders. Further, this could adversely affect our quarterly or other short-term results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 