Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. Because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. We have experienced significant turnover in our Board and executive management and have a new business development plan. During the second quarter of 2007, five new members and one incumbent director were elected to our Board at our annual meeting. Our Board then elected a new Chairman and a new Chief Executive Officer, and also appointed one additional incumbent member and one additional new member to our Board, for a total of eight board members. During the quarter we also engaged ZelnickMedia, a media investment and management firm, to provide us with executive management services. The Board and ZelnickMedia reorganized our executive management team and our business in fiscal 2007. It is not yet possible to accurately assess how effective our new management team will be, whether it will be able to accomplish the objectives of our new business development plan or whether our business reorganization plan, if successful, will be of significant benefit to us and our financial performance. In addition, the success of our business plan depends in part on events and circumstances that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, consumer demand for our products and other factors affecting our industry. The changes that are part of our business reorganization may be disruptive to our business. We depend on our key management and product development personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with ZelnickMedia. In 2007, we entered into an agreement with ZelnickMedia whereby it has agreed to provide executive management services to us and our Board through October 31, 2011. Our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer are partners of ZelnickMedia. We are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our Rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of Grand Theft Auto and other titles. Although we have employment agreements with our key Rockstar employees, we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. The compensation arrangements with these Rockstar employees could result in increased expenses and have a negative impact on our operating results. The loss of the services of our executive officers, ZelnickMedia or our key Rockstar employees could significantly harm our business. In addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which could significantly harm our business. Failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. We are dependent on the future success of our Grand Theft Auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. Grand Theft Auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. If we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful hit titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. For the years ended October 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our Grand Theft Auto titles accounted for 13.1%, 22.4% and 38.2% of our net revenue, respectively, and our 10 best selling titles accounted for approximately 26.6%, 10 38.4% and 48.2% of our net revenue, respectively. In addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. Hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products and services to fall below our expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability will decline. Our business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony's PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PSP and Microsoft's Xbox and Xbox 360. The success of our business is dependent in large part upon the success and availability of an adequate supply of next-generation video game platforms and hardware systems, our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. A new platform for which we are developing products may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. Alternatively, a platform for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than we had initially anticipated, causing us to miss a meaningful revenue opportunity. If the platforms for which we are developing products do not attain wide market acceptance, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the investments we have made in developing our products, and our financial performance will be harmed. We expect the average price of our prior-generation software titles to continue to decline. The interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. Consumer demand for software for prior-generation platforms has declined as newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance. As the gaming software industry transitions to next-generation platforms, we expect few, if any, prior-generation titles will be able to command premium prices and we expect that these titles will be subject to price reductions earlier in their product life cycles than we experienced in prior years. As a result, we have reduced prices for our prior-generation software titles and we expect to continue to reduce prices for such software titles, which will have a negative impact on our operating results. These changes may cause the value of our inventory to decline substantially or to become obsolete. The market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles. Delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The market for video games is characterized by short product lives and frequent introductions of new products. New products may not achieve significant market acceptance or generate sufficient sales to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. The life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. Because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from expectations. 11 Our distribution business is dependent on suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis. Our ability to obtain particular products in required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is important to the success of our distribution business. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. Our distribution business has experienced, and may in the future experience, significant supply shortages from time to time due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply products, such as the newest generation of platforms, on a timely basis. Further, manufacturers or publishers that currently distribute their products through us may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, or directly to retailers. If we cannot obtain sufficient supplies of the products that we distribute, our net revenue will decline and we could incur losses. We may need to raise additional capital if we continue to incur losses. We incurred significant losses in the years ended October 31, 2007 and 2006, and we may continue to incur losses. If losses continue, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. We could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. During the year ended October 31, 2007, we entered into a senior secured line of credit agreement, which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. If we were to borrow additional funds, it is likely that further debt service payments would be necessary. In addition, the terms of additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. If we seek financing through the sale of equity securities, our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. We cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available. If we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. These actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. Our involvement, and the involvement of some of our former executive officers in a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings has had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on us. We and some of our former officers, directors and employees have been, and are subject to, a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings, including the following: Former Officers. Our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pled guilty to two felony counts relating to our historical stock option granting practices and the Securities and Exchange Commission instituted a civil action against him. In addition, certain other former officers have been convicted of crimes relating to their conduct during their employment with us. Stock Option Granting Practices. In 2006, a Special Committee of our Board of Directors conducted an investigation into our historical stock option granting practices. The Special Committee determined that there were improprieties in the process of granting and documenting stock options and that incorrect measurement dates for some stock option grants had been used for financial reporting purposes. As a result, we recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with respect to some of our stock-based awards and restated certain previously filed financial information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006. Several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in state and federal courts against some of our current and former directors and some of our former executive officers relating to our historical stock option granting practices. 12 FTC Consent Order. We have entered into an agreement with the staff of the Federal Trade Commission containing a consent order that requires us to maintain a comprehensive system reasonably designed to ensure that all content in our electronic games is considered and reviewed in preparing submissions to a U.S. rating agency. We have also agreed to represent accurately the rating and content description for games we publish and to disclose to consumers the presence of any content relevant to the rating that was not disclosed to the rating authority. Personal Injury Actions. We are named as a defendant in a number of personal injury and wrongful death actions. SEC Investigation. We have received a notice from the SEC that it is conducting a formal investigation into certain stock option grants made by us. We have also received a "Wells" notice informing us of the SEC's intention to file charges and seek a civil monetary penalty in connection with this investigation. IRS Request for Information. We have received a request for information from the Internal Revenue Service relating to the granting and exercise of certain stock options and tax deductions taken by us with respect thereto. Other Inquiries and Proceedings. We have received grand jury subpoenas issued by the District Attorney of the County of New York and from certain state attorneys general relating to some of our products, our historical stock option granting practices, the termination of our former auditors and other matters. The investigations and charges against us or other current or former officers, directors or employees have imposed, and are likely to continue to impose, significant costs on us both financially and as a result of the distraction of our management team. While we are unable to estimate the exact nature or amount of these future costs, we believe they will likely include: •damage to our reputation and business relationships; •professional fees in connection with the conduct of the investigations and the defense of related litigations and other proceedings; •potential damages, fines, penalties or settlement costs imposed on us; •advancement of certain expenses and reimbursement of certain amounts payable by, or on behalf of, our current and former officers, directors and employees subject to the investigation or named in any litigations or other proceedings pursuant to our indemnification obligations; and •potential impairment of our ability to obtain coverage and reimbursement under existing insurance policies, and a potentially negative impact on our future insurance coverage. •potential impairment on our ability to raise capital, debt and equity Our ability to acquire licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, impacts our revenue and profitability. Competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. Many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. For example, our 2K Sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. Similarly, some of our other titles are based on key film and television licenses. Competition for these licenses is intense. If we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability will decline significantly. Competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. 13 Our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. Our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. We rely on third party software developers for the development of some of our titles. Quality third party developers are continually in high demand. Software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. Due to the limited number of third party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. We have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. These agreements typically require us to make advance payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. Our advance payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. Software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. Future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. If we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. We are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. We depend on third party software developers and our internal development studios to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. The development cycle for new titles ranges from 12 to 24 months. Development times and costs of next-generation software have increased substantially as a result of the additional and enhanced features available in the newest games. After development of a product, it may take between nine to 12 additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. If developers experience financial difficulties, additional costs or unanticipated development delays, we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. Certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties if we fail to meet agreed upon software release dates. There can be no assurance that the products so developed will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. Additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. Any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. The interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive both for our publishing and distribution operations. We compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. We also compete with domestic game publishers, such as Electronic Arts, Activision, THQ, Midway Games and Atari and international publishers, such as SEGA, Vivendi, Ubisoft, SCi Entertainment, Capcom, Konami and Namco-Bandai. As our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers 14 for commercially desirable properties. Our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. Our distribution business also operates in a highly competitive environment. Competition is based primarily on breadth, availability and quality of product lines; price; terms and conditions of sale; credit terms and availability; speed and accuracy of delivery; and effectiveness of sales and marketing programs. Our competitors include regional, national and international distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers and software publishers. We may lose market share or be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to our competitors. Our distribution business has been adversely affected by lower sales volume of software titles, a decrease in average selling prices of interactive entertainment products as our industry transitions to next-generation technology and increased competition in the value software market. A number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the Internet. If technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products. Increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. Retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. Competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. Competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. Accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. A substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. Sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 51.1%, 49.4% and 40.7% of our net revenue, for the years ended October 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, with Wal-Mart, GameStop and Best Buy accounting for 15.1%, 12.8% and 11.5%, respectively, of such net revenue for the year ended October 31, 2007. Our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. Certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. The loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "AO" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business. Returns of our products by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. Our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. However, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations to customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. We accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves 15 for returns and price concessions. While we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline. We submit our products for rating by the Entertainment Software Rating Board in the United States and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. Failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively impact our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. We voluntarily submit our game products to the ESRB, a U.S.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. The ESRB system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. The ESRB may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules on rating or marketing a game, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to a million dollars. Other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. We believe that we comply with rating system requirements and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. In some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. For example, during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2007, our release of Manhunt 2 was denied a rating certification by the British Board of Film Classification, the agency responsible for film and video game ratings in the United Kingdom. That decision was recently overturned by the British Video Appeals Committee, but the initial denial delayed the expected launch of Manhunt 2. In addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as Germany. In the United States, we develop software titles that we intend to receive ESRB ratings of "E" (age 6 and older), "E10+" (age 10 and older), "T" (age 13 and older) or "M" (age 17 and older). In addition to these ratings, the ESRB may also rate a game as "AO" (age 18 and older). Platform holders may not certify a game rated "AO" and retailers may refuse to sell "AO" games or games with controversial content. For instance, in 2007, some retailers reacted to the controversy over Manhunt 2 by refusing to sell it or refusing to sell it in brick and mortar stores. In addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. We have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the ESRB and other ratings organizations. Nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. If a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the ESRB could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. This could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. If any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Many of our Rockstar titles and certain of our 2K Games titles have been rated "M" by the ESRB. If we are unable to obtain "M" ratings as a result of changes in the ESRB's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. If any of our games are re-rated by the ESRB or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly impacted. 16 Our business and products are subject to potential legislation. The adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. Several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry, including a Senate bill, referred to as The Family Entertainment Protection Act. This bill prohibits the sale of "M" rated, "AO" rated and "Rating Pending" products to under-17 audiences (while the ESRB rating recommends an appropriate age group, there is currently no legal prohibition on any game sales). If the bill is enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for our "M" rated products, and adversely affect our operating results. Other countries, such as Germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the Internet that are stricter than current United States laws. In the United States, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate the sale of "M" or "AO" rated products and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violence or sexual materials to under 17 or 18 audiences. While such legislation to date has been successfully enjoined by industry and retail groups, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for our "M" rated titles. Content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products. Retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. If retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other objectionable content generally, or if any of our previously "M" rated series products are rated "AO," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best selling Grand Theft Auto titles could seriously hurt our business. Consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. Additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. See "Item 3.—Legal Proceedings." We cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. We are required to obtain licenses from Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. Our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. As a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. If a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason, we would be unable to publish additional titles for that licensor's platform. Termination of any such agreements could seriously hurt our business and prospects. Certain platform licensors have retained the right to change fee structures for online gameplay, and each licensor's ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. Increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. We may be unable to enter into license agreements for certain next-generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. 17 Our quarterly operating results are highly seasonal and may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. The interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters), due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday buying season. Our failure or inability to introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. The uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights or avoid claims that we infringe the proprietary rights of others. We develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. Well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the Internet. Although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. With advances in technology, game content and software graphics are expected to continue to become more realistic. As a result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. Although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. Moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. Our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. The technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. As software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. If, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue and damage to our reputation. Gross margins relating to our distribution business have been historically narrow, which increases the impact of variations in costs on our operating results. As a result of intense price competition, our gross margins in our distribution business have historically been narrow and may continue to be narrow in the future. Accordingly, slight variations in operating costs and expenses could result in losses in our distribution business from period to period. 18 We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. A significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is attributable to expenses for personnel and facilities. In the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. Moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. We are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. Sales in international markets, primarily in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. Sales in international markets accounted for approximately 31.3%, 39.4% and 39.8%, respectively, of our net revenue for the years ended October 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. All of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. While we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 