Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following material risks facing us. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially affected. We Compete in a Monopolistic Marketplace We operate in an environment that is dominated by the major syringe manufacturer in the U.S., BD. We believe that its monopolistic business practices continue despite its paying us $100 million to settle a prior lawsuit for anticompetitive practices, business disparagement, and tortious interference. Although we have made limited progress in some areas, such as the alternate care and international markets, our volumes are not as high as they should be given the nature and quality of our products, and the federal and state legislation requiring use of safe needle devices. In June 2007, we sued BD alleging infringement of three patents and violations by BD of the federal and state antitrust laws, and of the Lanham Act. We subsequently dropped one patent claim from the lawsuit. In April 2008, we sued BD for infringement of a newly issued patent that was subsequently consolidated with the other patent case. Our Cash Position Is Decreasing and Legal Expenses Are Increasing Due to our operating losses and currently increasing legal fees, our cash position declined $7.2 million as of December 31, 2008. Our litigation efforts will continue to require a significant amount of cash until the issues are resolved. Our lawsuit against BD is currently scheduled for trial in October 2009. After conclusion of the trial, legal expenses are expected to decrease significantly for the patent infringement cases. In the event we continue to have only limited market access, the cash provided by the prior litigation settlements and generated from operations becomes insufficient, and royalties from BTMD are not forthcoming, we would take cost cutting measures to reduce cash requirements. Such measures could 9 Table of Contents result in reduction of units being produced, reduction of workforce, reduction of salaries of officers and other nonhourly employees, and deferral of royalty payments. We Have Generally Been Unable to Gain Sufficient Market Access to Achieve Profitable Operations We have incurred net operating losses through all fiscal quarters of 2008. We may experience operating losses in the future. If we are unable to gain sufficient market access and market share, we may be unable to continue to finance research and development as well as support operations and expansion of production. We Are Dependent On Our Aging Patent Protection Our main competitive strength is our technology. We are dependent on our patent rights, and if our patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, our business would be adversely affected. Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in our marketing of products in the U.S. and in most major foreign markets. Patents covering products that we have introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of our products. As our technology ages (and the associated patent life expires), our competitive position in the marketplace will weaken. The initial patents protecting our revolutionary spring action syringe will expire beginning in May 2015. Patent life may be extended, not through the original patents, but through related improvements. Our ability to improve these patents is uncertain. Eventually, however, our patent protection may decrease and we will be vulnerable to other competitors utilizing our technology. Our Patents Are Subject to Litigation We are currently involved in multiple patent disputes. Patent litigation and challenges involving our patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive us of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third party patents may prevent us from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. We Are Vulnerable to New Technologies Because we have a narrow focus on particular product lines and technology (currently predominantly retractable needle products), we are vulnerable to the development of superior competing products and to changes in technology which could eliminate or reduce the need for our products. If a superior technology is created, the demand for our products could greatly diminish. Our Competitors Have Greater Resources The three leading manufacturers of hypodermic syringes and blood collection products are BD, Covidien, and Terumo. All three companies offer both standard syringes and at least one safety syringe alternative. BD also offers a retractable syringe. These competitors have greater financial resources, larger and more established sales and marketing and distribution organizations, and greater market influence, including long-term contracts. These competitors may be able to use these resources to improve their products through research and acquisitions or develop new products, which may compete more effectively with our products. If our competitors choose to use their resources to create products superior to ours, we may be unable to sell our products and our ability to continue operations would be weakened. 10 Table of Contents The Majority of Our International Sales Are Filled Using One Supplier Most international sales are filled by production from Double Dove. In the event that we become unable to purchase such product from Double Dove, we would need to find an alternate supplier for the 0.5cc insulin syringe and the 5cc and 10cc syringes and increase domestic production for the 1cc and 3cc syringes to avoid a disruption in supply. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 74.0% of our production was provided by Double Dove. Fluctuations in Supplies of Inventory Could Temporarily Increase Costs Fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and inventory and the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships could result in the need to manufacture all (as opposed to 26.0%) of the products in the U.S. This could temporarily increase unit costs as we ramp up domestic production. We Are Controlled by One Shareholder Thomas J. Shaw, our President and Chairman of the Board, and Ms. Suzanne August own 35.7% and 11.8%, respectively, of the outstanding Common Stock as of March 2, 2009. The shares held by Ms. August are controlled by Mr. Shaw pursuant to a Voting Agreement, which terminates upon sale of all the shares for value or if terminated by both parties in writing. Mr. Shaw will, therefore, have the ability to direct our operations and financial affairs and to substantially influence the election of members of our Board of Directors. His interests may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership, for example, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Of the 23,800,064 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 2, 2009, executive officers and Directors own or control 11,337,000 (47.6%) of the shares of outstanding Common Stock, not including Common Stock equivalents such as preferred shares and options. We Have Limited Access to the Capital Markets The volume of trading in our Common Stock on the NYSE Alternext US, LLC (“NYSE Alternext”) (formerly the American Stock Exchange) is low. Accordingly, it is unclear if there is any significant market for our shares. This may reduce our ability to raise cash through public or private offerings in the future. Our Stock Price Sometimes Decreases Below NYSE Alternext Continued Listing Standards Our stock price may be deemed to have been selling “for a substantial period of time at a low price per share” which may result in our receipt of a notification from the NYSE Alternext that a reverse split is necessary. We have received no such notification. When a company receives such a notification, failure to effect a reverse stock split may result in suspension or removal from trading on the NYSE Alternext. The NYSE Alternext may initiate delisting procedures, in its discretion. Delisting of our shares would greatly affect the liquidity of our shares and would reduce our ability to raise funds from the sale of equity in the future. However, we believe such delisting application to be unlikely. Furthermore, in the event that we receive a deficiency letter from the NYSE Alternext, we will have the right to appeal such determination. In addition, entities that were given such notices under the American Stock Exchange standards were generally given up to 18 months to execute a plan to bring themselves into compliance with the listing standards. 11 Table of Contents Oil Prices and Transportation Costs May Increase Our Costs As our products are made from petroleum products, fluctuations in the costs of oil and transportation may have an impact on our costs. Increases in costs may not be recoverable through price increases of our products. Current Economic Conditions May Decrease Collectability of Accounts Although we believe that we have granted credit to credit-worthy firms, current economic conditions may affect the timing and/or collectability of some accounts. The Provision for doubtful accounts increased by $245,958 for 2008 which brings the balance to $499,966. We Face Inherent Product Liability Risks As a manufacturer and provider of safety needle products, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event of product failure or claim of harm caused by product operation. Product failure could result in injury to the patient and could expose healthcare workers to the risk of blood borne pathogens. If any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall those products. We do not have recall insurance. If a product liability claim is made and damages are in excess of our product liability coverage, our competitive position could be weakened by the amount of money we could be required to pay to compensate those injured by our products. We have products liability coverage with St. Paul Insurance Company covering up to $1,000,000 per occurrence, with coverage up to $2,000,000 in the aggregate. Each claim is subject to a $25,000 deductible. Additionally, we have additional product liability protection under an Umbrella Liability Policy. This policy provides an additional $10,000,000 per occurrence and aggregate limits in the event claims exceed the primary commercial general liability policy limit. We have not had any product liability claims. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable and none. 