Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. Because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. Risks relating to our business We are dependent on the future success of our Grand Theft Auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. Grand Theft Auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. If we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. In addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. Hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. We are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. We depend on our internal development studios and third party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. The development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months, and our top-selling titles could take up to three years or longer to develop. Development times and costs of current generation software have increased substantially as a result of the additional and enhanced features available in the newest games. Further, after development of a product it may take between 9 and 12 additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. If our third party software developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. Certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties if we fail to meet agreed upon game release dates. There can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. Additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. Any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. The market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles. The inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The market for video games is characterized by short product lives and frequent introductions of new products. New products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. The life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales 11 Table of Contents during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. Because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. Our business is subject to the continued popularity of current generation video game platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony's PS3 and PSP, Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Nintendo's Wii and DS. The success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. If the average price of our prior generation software titles continues to decline or if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on current generation titles, our operating results may suffer. The interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. Current generation titles for the PS3, Xbox 360 and Wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such consoles. We expect to continue to price current generation titles at a premium level. However, circumstances may arise in which we may need to reduce prices for such titles. For example, the current economic downturn has reduced consumer demand and some of our competitors have temporarily dropped and may continue to drop the pricing of their games for promotional purposes. In addition, retailers have been increasingly funding their own promotional pricing programs. Continued promotional pricing could require us to reduce prices on our current generation titles. If we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these current generation titles, it will have a material adverse effect on our margins, profitability and operating results. Consumer demand for software for prior generation platforms has declined as newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance. Consequently, pricing for prior generation titles across the industry has declined and we expect it to continue to decline. Furthermore, prior generation titles may be subject to price reductions earlier in their product life cycles than we experienced in prior years. As a result, we have reduced prices for our prior generation software titles and we expect to continue to reduce prices for such software titles, which will have a negative impact on our operating results. These changes may cause the value of our inventory to decline substantially or to become obsolete. We depend on our key management and product development personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with ZelnickMedia Corporation ("ZelnickMedia"). Our Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer are partners of ZelnickMedia. We are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our Rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of our Grand Theft Auto titles and titles based on other brands. Although we entered into employment agreements with members of the creative team of our Rockstar Games publishing label, we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. The loss of the services of our executive officers, ZelnickMedia or our key Rockstar employees could significantly harm our business. In addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. Failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. 12 Table of Contents The recent decline in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy have negatively affected our business and any further declines in consumer spending or other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. We believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. This makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. As a result of the current national and global economic downturn, overall consumer spending has declined and retailers globally have taken a more conservative stance in ordering game inventory. Continued adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged U.S. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. Reduced consumer spending has and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. If economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. We have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. The release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. In addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. Demand for and sales of our sports titles are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the sport season which they depict. Our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. The uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. A significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is attributable to expenses for personnel and facilities. In the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. Moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. 13 Table of Contents Returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. Our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. However, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. We accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. While we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline. Increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. Certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. If our customers continue to increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse impact on our operating results. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. A substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. Our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. Certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. The loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "AO" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to the current economic downturn, the global contraction of credit or for other factors. Bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. If our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. Our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. If the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with our customers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. We rely on a primary distribution service provider for a significant portion of our products and the failure of this service provider to perform as expected could harm our operating results. We sell our products to our customers in the United States primarily through a distribution service provider, Ditan Distribution, LLC ("Ditan"). Ditan provides shipping, receiving, warehouse management and related functions. If Ditan does not perform these services in a satisfactory manner, or if we desire or are required to replace Ditan as our primary distributor and are unable to do so, our sales and operating results could suffer. 14 Table of Contents The interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. We compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. We also compete with domestic game publishers, such as Electronic Arts, Activision Blizzard and THQ and international publishers, such as Capcom, Square Enix, Konami, Namco-Bandai, SEGA and Ubisoft. As our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. Our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. A number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the Internet. If technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products. Increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. Retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. Competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. Competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. Accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. Our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. Our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. We rely on third party software developers for the development of some of our titles. Quality third party developers are continually in high demand. Software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. Due to the limited number of third party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. We have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. These agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. Our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. Software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. Future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. If we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or 15 Table of Contents modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. We cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. We are required to obtain licenses from Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. Our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. As a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. If a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. Termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. We may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. Our platform licensors control the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. Certain platform licensors have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) on their platforms. Each licensor's ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. Increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. We may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through this distribution channel, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We submit our products for rating by the Entertainment Software Rating Board ("ESRB") in the United States and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. Failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively impact our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. We voluntarily submit our game products to the ESRB, a U.S.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. The ESRB system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. The ESRB may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to $1 million. Other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. In some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. In addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as Germany. In the United States, if the ESRB rates a game as "AO" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. In addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. Many of our Rockstar titles and certain of our 2K Games titles have been rated "M" (age 17 and older) by the ESRB. If we are unable to obtain "M" ratings and instead receive "AO" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the ESRB's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. If any of our games are re-rated by the ESRB or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly impacted. 16 Table of Contents We have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the ESRB and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. Nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. If a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the ESRB could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. This could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. If any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products. Retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. If retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "M" rated series products are rated "AO," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best selling Grand Theft Auto titles could seriously affect our business. Consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. Additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. Our business and products are subject to potential legislation. The adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. Several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. Such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing content included in some of our games. If any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the United States, and adversely affect our operating results. Other countries, such as Germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the Internet that are stricter than current United States laws. In the United States, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences. While such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. We may need to raise additional capital if we continue to incur losses. We incurred losses during the five months ended March 31, 2010 and fiscal year ended October 31, 2009, and we may continue to incur losses. If we incur losses in the future, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. We could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2007, we entered into a senior secured line of credit agreement (and expanded the line of credit in November 2007), which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. In addition, during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009 we issued convertible senior notes, which require us to make periodic interest payments to the holders of the convertible senior notes. If we borrow additional funds, further debt service payments would probably be necessary. In addition, the terms of 17 Table of Contents additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. If we seek financing through the sale of equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible senior notes), our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. We cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available, particularly in light of the current economic downturn which has, among other consequences, led to the depression of stock prices and the tightening of credit. If we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. These actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. Continued turmoil in the credit markets may affect our ability to raise additional capital. Ongoing turmoil in the credit markets may make it difficult for us to obtain financing, on acceptable terms or at all, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments. Liquidity in credit markets has contracted significantly, making terms for certain financings less attractive. These difficulties could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. Sales in international markets, primarily in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. We have also recently expanded our Asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. All of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. While we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. We face risks from our international operations. We are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we seek to grow our business and presence outside of the United States. Changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. Trade legislation in either the United States or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. We develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. Well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the Internet. Although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. If we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. With advances in technology, game content and software graphics are expected to continue to become more realistic. As a result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. Although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. Moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. Data breaches involving the source code for our products could adversely affect our revenues. We securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. A breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data is stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. If we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. The technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. As software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. We may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. If, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. If we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. We may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring 19 Table of Contents or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: •retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; •cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; •the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; •significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; •significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; •the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse impact on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; •the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; •litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties; and •to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the United States, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock- based compensation. Any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. Our ability to acquire licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, impacts our revenue and profitability. Competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. Many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. For example, our 2K Sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. Similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. Competition for these licenses is intense. If we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable 20 Table of Contents economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. Competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. If such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely impacted. We are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business. Our credit agreement and the indenture governing our convertible senior notes limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. In addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. Accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. Our credit agreement and the indenture also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. A breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indenture governing our convertible senior notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. Our involvement, and the involvement of some of our former executive officers, in a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings has had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on us. We and some of our former officers, directors and employees have recently been the subject of three separate governmental investigations and a substantial amount of litigation and other proceedings relating to the subject matter of those investigations. While most of these matters have been resolved, several remain outstanding. See "Item 3.—Legal Proceedings." These investigations, litigation and other proceedings have imposed significant costs on us, including professional fees, penalties and settlement costs, and the diversion of the time and attention of our management team. Even if resolved favorably, the remaining litigation could continue to be time consuming and result in additional costs of the kind described above, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also may be subject to heightened scrutiny in the future as a result of our historical legal proceedings, including an increased likelihood of a government investigation occurring and an increased likelihood that any such investigation is more extensive than in the past. Furthermore, any future fines, restrictions or other penalties imposed as a result of any such investigation may be more severe than those which may be imposed on a company without our history. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. This may adversely impact our operating results. 21 Table of Contents Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. The frequency of accounting policy changes may continue to accelerate. For example, standards regarding software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. We expect that a significant portion of our games will be online- enabled in the future, and we could be required to recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time rather than at the time of sale. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. Risks relating to our common stock For purposes of this section "—Risks relating to our common stock," references to "the Company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and not to its subsidiaries. Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. We may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible senior notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact its price. The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. Stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. The convertible senior note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the offering of our convertible senior notes may affect the value of the notes and our common stock. In connection with the offering of our convertible senior notes, we entered into convertible senior note hedge transactions which are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the notes. However, we also entered into warrant transactions which could separately have a dilutive effect on our 22 Table of Contents earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. In addition, the counterparties to the hedge and warrant transactions, and/or their respective affiliates, may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions at any time prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the notes. Delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Our Board has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. In addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our convertible senior notes and any potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding notes. We or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. The ability of our Board to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. If, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under Section 382. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. Depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to fully utilize our net operating losses to offset taxable income generated in the future could have a material and negative impact on our future financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 