Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are the not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Economic conditions may adversely affect First Defiance’s operations and financial condition. Local Economic Conditions – First Defiance conducts its banking and insurance business primarily in northwest Ohio, northeast Indiana and southeast Michigan. Unemployment rates for most of the counties within our geographic market area are above the median rate for the United States and above the median rates for the States of Ohio, Indiana, and Michigan. As reported for December 2010, the 15 counties in which our offices are located had unemployment rates between 8.1% and 16.3%, and all experienced an improvement in their unemployment rate in 2010 compared to 2009. In addition, real estate values in First Defiance’s markets have declined and may continue to decline. High unemployment and declining real estate values have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings and financial condition because: • more borrowers are unable to make payments on their loans; • the value of collateral securing loans has declined; and • the overall quality of the loan portfolio has declined. General Economic Conditions – Dramatic declines in real estate values, along with high unemployment, have disrupted the national credit and capital markets over the last two years. As a result, many financial institutions have had to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection and, in some cases, they have been forced into a sale or closed by the bank regulatory agencies. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions, because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. The reduced availability of credit, the lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, First Defiance faces the following risks: • inability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit -25- Table of Contents losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; • increased regulation of the financial services industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations; compliance with such regulation will likely increase costs and may limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities; • further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions; • increased competition among financial services companies due to the consolidation of financial institutions, which may adversely affect our ability to market the Company’s products and services; and • further increases in FDIC insurance premiums due to the market developments which have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Declining Real Estate Values – Approximately 74.3% of the loans in First Federal’s portfolio are secured in whole or in part by real estate. As residential real estate prices have declined in the last two years, defaults and foreclosures have increased. Commercial real estate values have also declined, and the owners of many income-producing properties are experiencing declines in their revenue, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their loans. Foreclosures and resolutions of nonperforming loans require significant personnel resources and involve other costs that may increase our operating expenses. Properties acquired through foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure are taking longer to sell in the current economy, which increases the Company’s expenses for managing, maintaining and insuring real estate owned. If First Federal is unable to sell properties at a price that will cover its expenses as well as the unpaid principal and interest on the loan, the resulting write-downs and losses will adversely affect First Defiance’s net income. Volatile Capital Markets – The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on credit availability for certain issuers. Continuing market disruption and volatility could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. First Defiance’s stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the underlying performance of First Defiance. General market price declines and overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of its common stock, and the current market price of the stock may not be indicative of future market prices. First Defiance’s stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: • Actions by government regulators; • First Defiance’s announcements of developments related to its business; • Fluctuation in our results of operation; • Sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • New reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry. -26- Table of Contents First Defiance’s loan portfolio includes a concentration of commercial real estate loans and commercial loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value and the successful operations of these businesses. At December 31, 2010, First Federal’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $767.0 million, or approximately 50.1% of total loans. First Federal’s commercial real estate loans typically have higher principal amounts than residential real estate loans, and many of our commercial real estate borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. As a result, an adverse development on one loan can expose First Defiance to greater risk of loss on other loans. Additionally, repayment of the loans is generally dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic conditions and events outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. At December 31, 2010, First Federal’s portfolio of commercial loans totaled $370.0 million, or approximately 24.2% of total loans. Commercial loans generally expose First Defiance to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than commercial real estate or residential real estate loans since repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. First Federal’s commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower such as accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. First Defiance targets its business lending towards small and medium-sized businesses, many of which have fewer financial resources than larger companies and may be more susceptible to economic downturns. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, First Defiance’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Increases to the allowance for loan losses may cause First Defiance’s earnings to decrease. First Defiance makes a number of assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, First Defiance relies on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If its assumptions prove to be incorrect, First Defiance’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance and any loan losses that exceed First Defiance’s reserves would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates can adversely affect First Defiance’s profitability First Defiance’s earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including: -27- Table of Contents • the rate of inflation; • economic conditions; • federal monetary policies; and • stability of domestic and foreign markets. Because First Defiance’s interest-bearing liabilities may reprice or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates could result in a decrease in First Defiance’s net interest income. First Federal originates a significant amount of residential mortgage loans that it sells in the secondary market. The origination of residential mortgage loans is highly dependent on the local real estate market and the current interest rates. Increasing interest rates tend to reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently fee income, which First Defiance reports as mortgage banking income. Conversely, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of mortgage servicing rights on the loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, First Defiance may be required to write down the value of its mortgage servicing rights faster than anticipated, which will increase expense and lower earnings. Accelerated repayments on loans and mortgage backed securities could result in the reinvestment of funds at lower rates than the loans or securities were paying. Financial reform legislation recently enacted will, among other things, eliminate the OTS, tighten capital standards, create a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on First Defiance. For example, the new law provides that the OTS, which is currently the primary federal regulator for First Defiance and First Federal, will cease to exist on July 21, 2011. The OCC, which is currently the primary federal regulator for national banks, will become the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts, including First Federal. Additionally, the Federal Reserve Board will supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS, including First Defiance. Also effective one year after the date of enactment is a provision that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on First Defiance’s interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on a financial institution’s average consolidated total assets less tangible equity. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and noninterest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. -28- Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow shareholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and gives it broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Additionally, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as First Federal, will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is difficult to predict the specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act, and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations, will have on financial institutions. However, it is expected that they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Other Laws and regulations may affect First Defiance’s results of operations. The earnings of financial institutions are affected by the regulations and policies of various regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the money supply, and the OTS, which regulates the Company and First Federal, and the FDIC, which regulates First Federal. The OTS has extensive supervisory authority over the Company, affecting a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of First Defiance’s shares, First Defiance’s acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for the Company to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of operations. These supervisory and regulatory powers are intended primarily for the protection for First Defiance’s depositors and customers and the deposit insurance fund, rather than First Defiance’s shareholders. In connection with its supervision of First Defiance, the OTS asked the Company to enter into a memorandum of understanding, which is a tool employed by bank regulatory agencies to address areas of concern to the regulator. The memorandum for the Company requires that it submit to the OTS specific strategies for increasing and maintaining capital at targets, to be established by First Defiance’s board of directors that are commensurate with First Defiance’s risk profile. At December 31, 2010, First Federal’s capital ratios were 10.81% for tangible capital and 14.09% for total risk-based capital, both of which exceed the regulatory thresholds to be considered “well-capitalized.” The memorandum also requires that First Defiance obtain approval from the OTS before it pays any dividends, including dividends on common shares, or incur, issue, renew, or rollover any debt. First Federal also agreed to a memorandum of understanding, the principal terms of which relate to First Federal’s risk profile and asset quality. Compliance with the First Federal memorandum may restrict First Defiance’s operations and adversely affect its financial results. First Defiance issued $37.0 million of our Series A Preferred Shares to the U.S. Treasury -29- Table of Contents pursuant to the CPP. The rules and policies applicable to CPP participants continue to evolve and their scope, timing and effect cannot be predicted. Current restrictions include limits on First Defiance’s ability to pay retention awards, bonuses and other incentive compensation during the period in which it has any outstanding securities held by the U.S. Treasury that were issued under the CPP. These limitations may adversely affect First Defiance’s ability to recruit and retain key personnel, especially if it is competing for talent against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time. As a result of ongoing challenges facing the U. S. economy in particular, the potential exists for new laws and regulations, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Increased regulation could increase First Defiance’s cost of compliance and reduce its income to the extent that they limit the manner in which First Defiance may conduct business, including its ability to offer new products, charge fees for specific products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. First Defiance’s ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost may adversely affect net income. First Defiance’s principal sources of liquidity are local deposits and wholesale funding sources such as FHLB advances, Federal Funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and brokered or other out-of-market certificate of deposit purchases. Also, First Defiance maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. First Defiance’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize its activities or on terms that are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect First Defiance directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as further disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Other possible sources of liquidity include the sale or securitization of loans, the issuance of additional collateralized borrowings beyond those currently utilized with the FHLB, the issuance of debt securities and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions, or borrowings from a commercial bank. First Defiance does not currently have any borrowings from a commercial bank, but it has used them in the past. Pursuant to the MOU, First Defiance must obtain OTS approval before incurring or issuing any debt. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to First Defiance’s shareholders, or fulfill obligations such as repaying First Defiance’s borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition affects First Defiance’s earnings. First Defiance’s continued profitability depends on its ability to continue to effectively compete to originate loans and attract and retain deposits. Competition for both loans and deposits is intense in the financial services industry. The Company competes in its market area by offering superior service and competitive rates and products. The type of institutions First Defiance competes with include large regional commercial banks, smaller community banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance agencies and mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of First Defiance’s competitors can offer a broader range of products and services than the Company can offer. To stay competitive in its market -30- Table of Contents area, First Defiance may need to adjust the interest rates on its products to match rates of its competition, which could have a negative impact on net interest margin. The increasing complexity of First Defiance’s operations presents varied risks that could affect its earnings and financial condition First Defiance processes a large volume of transactions on a daily basis and is exposed to numerous types of risks related to internal processes, people and systems. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, breaches of data security and our internal control system and compliance with a complex array of consumer and safety and soundness regulations. First Defiance could also experience additional loss as a result of potential legal actions that could arise as a result of operational deficiencies or as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. First Defiance has established and maintains a system of internal controls that provides management with information on a timely basis and allows for the monitoring of compliance with operational standards. These systems have been designed to manage operational risks at an appropriate, cost effective level. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. Losses from operational risks may still occur, however, including losses from the effects of operational errors. First Defiance’s operations are also dependent on its existing infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of vital infrastructure as a result of fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failures, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic response to such activity, or other events outside of the control of management could have a material adverse impact on its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. First Defiance has a business recovery plan, but there are no assurances that such a plan will work as intended or that it will prevent significant interruptions to operations. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. In the normal course of business, First Defiance collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of First Defiance and other third parties. Despite the security measures the Company has in place, First Defiance’s facilities and systems, and those of the Company’s third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, act of vandalism, computer viruses, lost or misplace data, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential customer information, whether by First Defiance or by the Company’s third party vendors, could severely damage First Defiance’s reputation, expose the Company to risks of litigation and liability, disrupt First Defiance’s operations and have a material adverse effect on First Defiance’s business. The issuance of Series A Preferred Shares and Warrants to the U. S. Government may adversely affect the holders of our Common Shares. First Defiance issued 37,000 Series A Preferred Shares and warrants to purchase 550,595 shares of First Defiance Common Shares to the U.S. Department of the Treasury under the Capital Purchase -31- Table of Contents Program. The dividends accrued and the accretion on discount on the Series A Preferred Shares issued to the U.S. Treasury reduce the net income available to the holders of our Common Shares and our earnings per Common Share. Because the Series A Preferred Shares are cumulative, any dividends not declared or paid will accumulate and will be payable when the payment of dividends is resumed. If the Series A Preferred Shares are not redeemed within five years after their original date of issuance, the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares will increase from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares by December 5, 2013, the increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and could also adversely affect our ability to declare and pay dividends on our Common Shares. Series A Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First Defiance. The Common Shares underlying the Warrant represent approximately 6.4% of the Common Shares outstanding as of December 31, 2010 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in our total outstanding Common Shares). If the Warrant is exercised, the interest of the existing holders of our Common Shares will be diluted. Although the Treasury Department has agreed not to vote any of the Common Shares acquired upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of the Warrant or of any Common Shares acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. Finally, the terms of the Series A Preferred Shares allow the U.S. Treasury to impose additional restrictions, including those on dividends and to unilaterally amend the terms of the Series A Preferred Shares to comply with changes in applicable federal law. If we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares for six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), the Treasury Department will have the right to appoint two directors to our Board of Directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid. As long as the Series A Preferred Shares are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the “Articles”), the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the Series A Preferred Shares outstanding is required for: • any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A shares; • any amendments to the rights of the Series A Preferred Shares that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A shares; or • the consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the Series A shares remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the Series A shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities have the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the Series A shares. The holders of Series A Preferred Shares, including the U.S. Treasury, may have different interests from the holders of our common shares, and could vote to block transactions that may be in the best interest of the present holders of our common shares. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may result in significant dilution to holders of First Defiance Common Shares. There can be no assurance that we will not in the future determine that it is advisable, or that we will not encounter circumstances where we determine that it is necessary, to issue additional Common Shares, securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Shares or common-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to build additional capital. In addition, if we decide to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury, we may elect or be -32- Table of Contents required by our regulators to increase the amount of our Tier 1 common equity through the sale of additional Common Shares. Further, there can be no assurance that our regulators will not require us to generate additional capital, including Tier 1 common equity, in the future in the event of further negative economic circumstances, in order for us to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury under the CPP or otherwise. The market price of our Common Shares could decline as a result of such exchange offerings, as well as other sales of a large block of our Common Shares or similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception that such sales could occur. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We may not be permitted to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment if and when we request approval to do so. While it is our plan to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock as soon as practicable, in order to repurchase such securities, in whole or in part, we must establish to our regulators’ satisfaction that we have met all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of our primary federal regulator and the U.S. Treasury. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment in our Series A Preferred Stock subject to conditions that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition to limiting our ability to return capital to our shareholders, the U.S. Treasury’s investment could limit our ability to retain key executives and other key employees because of the limits on compensation that may be paid to employees of CPP participants, and limit our ability to develop business opportunities. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock within five years from the issuance date, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to December 5, 2013, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $1.9 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $3.3 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. Regulatory restriction on dividends and our ability to repurchase shares may adversely affect our shareholders and the market price of our common shares. As long as the Series A shares are outstanding and held by the Treasury Department, we cannot increase the quarterly dividend on our common shares above $.26 per share without prior approval from the Treasury Department. In addition to this restriction, the OTS has directed First Defiance to seek approval of the OTS before paying any dividends on our common shares. Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares is distributions from First Federal, which require the prior approval of the OTS. The OTS has advised us that it is not likely to approve any distributions from First Federal for this purpose in the foreseeable future. The OTS has also advised us that we should not pay dividends utilizing borrowings or other sources of funds that we may have access to. As long as the Series A shares are outstanding and held by the Treasury Department, we cannot repurchase our common shares without the consent of the Treasury Department (other than repurchases in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice and certain other exemptions). Further, the OTS has directed First Defiance to seek approval of the OTS before repurchasing any common shares. -33- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 