ITEM 1A: Risk Factors The following cautionary statements identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. Among the key factors that have a direct bearing on our results of operations are:13Risks Associated With Our Business No assurance of successful product development. Ampligen® and related products. The development of Ampligen® and our other related products is subject to a number of significant risks. Ampligen® may be found to be ineffective or to have adverse side effects, fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances, be difficult to manufacture on a commercial scale, be uneconomical to market or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary right of third parties. Our investigational products are in various stages of clinical and pre-clinical development and require further clinical studies and appropriate regulatory approval processes before any such products can be marketed. We do not know when, if ever, Ampligen® or our other products will be generally available for commercial sale for any indication. Generally, only a small percentage of potential therapeutic products are eventually approved by the FDA for commercial sale. (Please see the next Risk Factor and Part 1, Item I Business, “Our Products” “Ampligen®” above for more information).Alferon N Injection®. Although Alferon N Injection® is approved for marketing in the United States for the intralesional treatment of refractory or recurring external genital warts in patients 18 years of age or older, to date it has not been approved for other indications. We face many of the risks discussed above, with regard to developing this product for use to treat other ailments. (Please see the next Risk Factor and Part 1, Item I Business, “Our Products” “Alferon N Injection®” above for more information).Our drug and related technologies are investigational and subject to regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all, our operations will be materially harmed and our stock adversely affected.All of our drugs and associated technologies, other than Alferon N Injection®, are investigational and must receive prior regulatory approval by appropriate regulatory authorities for commercial distribution and sale and are currently legally available only through clinical trials with specified disorders. At present, Alferon N Injection® is only approved for the intralesional treatment of refractory or recurring external genital warts in patients 18 years of age or older. Use of Alferon N Injection® for other indications will require regulatory approval.Our products, including Ampligen®, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States (“U.S.”) and other countries, including, but not limited to, the FDA in the U.S., the Health Protection Branch (“HPB”) of Canada, the Agency for the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) in Europe and the Administracion Nacional de Medicamentos, Alimentos y Tecnologia Medica (“ANMAT”) in Argentina. Obtaining regulatory approvals is a rigorous and lengthy process and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. In order to obtain final regulatory approval of a new drug, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the regulatory agency that the product is safe and effective for its intended uses and that we are capable of manufacturing the product to the applicable regulatory standards. We require regulatory approval in order to market Ampligen® or any other proposed product and receive product revenues or royalties. We cannot assure you that Ampligen® will ultimately be demonstrated to be safe and efficacious. While Ampligen® is authorized for use in clinical trials in the U.S., we cannot assure you that additional clinical trial approvals will be authorized in the United States or in other countries, in a timely fashion or at all, or that we will complete these clinical trials. In addition, although Ampligen® has been authorized by the FDA for treatment use under certain conditions, including provision for cost recovery, there can be no assurance that such authorization will continue in effect. On February 1, 2013, we received a CRL from the FDA declining to approve our Ampligen® NDA for the treatment of CFS. The FDA communicated that we should conduct at least one additional clinical trial, complete various nonclinical studies and perform a number of data analysis. For more detailed information about the current status of our Ampligen® NDA please see “Our Products; Ampligen®” in Part 1, Item 1. Business above.The FDA's regulatory review and approval process is extensive, lengthy, expensive and inherently uncertain. To receive approval for a product candidate, we must, among other things, demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction with substantial evidence from well-controlled pre-clinical and clinical trials that the product candidate is both safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought. Before we can sell Ampligen® for any use, or Alferon® for any use other than as Alferon N Injection® for treatment of refractory or recurring genital warts, we will need to file the appropriate NDA with the FDA in the U.S. and the appropriate regulatory agency outside of the U.S. where we intend to market and sell such products. At present the only NDA we have filed with the FDA is the NDA for the use of Ampligen® to treat CFS. As discussed in the prior paragraph, the FDA declined to approve this NDA and indicated that we needed to conduct additional work. Therefore, ultimate FDA approval, if any, may be delayed by several years and may require us to expend more resources than we have available. It is also possible that additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be successful or considered sufficient by the FDA for approval or even to make our applications approvable. If any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to abandon one or more of our future applications for approval, which might significantly harm our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot predict if or when we might receive regulatory approval for the use of Ampligen® to treat CFS or for the use of any other products. Even if regulatory approval from 14the FDA is received for the use of Ampligen® to treat CFS or eventually, for the use of any other product, any approvals that we obtain could contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, patient populations, warnings, precautions or contra-indications or other conditions of use, or the requirement that we implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy. In such an event, our ability to generate revenues from such products could be greatly reduced and our business could be harmed.Even if we believe that data collected from our preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidate are promising, these data have not been, and may not be in the future, sufficient to support marketing approval by the FDA, and regulatory interpretation of these data and procedures may continue to be unfavorable. To the extent that we are required by the FDA pursuant to the Ampligen® NDA to conduct additional studies and take additional actions, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed by several years, or may require us to expend more resources than we have available. It is also possible that additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be successful or considered sufficient by the FDA for approval or even to make our applications approvable. If any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to abandon one or more of our future applications for approval, which might significantly harm our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot predict when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product candidate we develop.Obtaining approval of a NDA by the FDA, or a comparable foreign regulatory authority, is inherently uncertain. Even after completing clinical trials and other studies, a product candidate could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following:•not be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that our product candidate is safe and effective for any indication;•the FDA may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials or other studies;•the results of the clinical trials or other studies may not demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;•the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of data from clinical trials or other studies;•the data collected from clinical trials and other studies of a product candidate may not be sufficient to support the submission of a NDA;•the approval policies or regulations of the FDA may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical and other study data insufficient for approval; and•the FDA may not approve the proposed manufacturing processes and facilities for a product candidate.In April 2012, FDA reviewers raised certain questions about the status of our existing lots of older Work-In-Process Alferon® materials and Alferon® API, which would need to be released by the FDA before those materials could be used in commercial product. After conducting all of the appropriate tests on samples of the inventory during 2013, we concluded that we could not alleviate certain questions the FDA had about the older Work-In-Process Alferon N Injection®. Accordingly, these lots will not be submitted to the FDA to request release for commercial sale and their remaining dollar value has been written-off. In the absence of FDA approvals for product manufactured from existing inventory, commercial sales of Alferon® will not resume until new batches of Alferon® inventory and API can be produced, filled and finished, and released by the FDA for commercial sale. (Please see Part I, Item 1 - "Business; Our Products; Alferon N Injection®” above for more information).Alferon® LDO has been approved for pre-clinical testing for possible use as prophylaxis and treatment against influenza. While the studies to date have been encouraging, preliminary testing in the laboratory and in animal models is not necessarily predictive of successful results in clinical testing or human treatment. No assurance can be given that similar results will be observed in clinical trials. Use of Alferon® as a possible treatment of influenza requires prior regulatory approval. In October 2009, we originally submitted a protocol to the FDA proposing to conduct a Phase II, double-blind, adaptive-design, randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study of Alferon® LDO for the prophylaxis and treatment of seasonal and pandemic influenza of more than 200 subjects. In December 2010, the FDA authorized this Phase II, double-blind, adaptive-design, randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study of Alferon® LDO for the prophylaxis and treatment of seasonal and pandemic influenza of more than 200 subjects. Our Phase II study has been delayed. The outcome of this confirmatory study, if and when resumed, will allow us to better evaluate the potential effectiveness of this product and to proceed with this study of seasonal and pandemic influenza. We are unable to provide any assurances that the Phase II Alferon® LDO study for the prophylaxis and treatment of seasonal and pandemic influenza will be undertaken. If we are unable to gain necessary FDA approvals related to Ampligen® and Alferon® on a timely basis, our operations most likely will be materially and/or adversely affected. Additionally, if we are unable to generate the additional data, successfully complete inspections or obtain approvals as required by the FDA on a timely manner, or at all, or determine that any of our clinical studies are not cost/justified to undertake or if, for that or any other reason, Ampligen®, Alferon® or one of our other products or production processes do not receive necessary regulatory approval in the U.S. or elsewhere:15•our ability to generate revenues to sustain our operations will be substantially impaired, which would increase the likelihood that we would need to obtain additional financing for our other development efforts; •our reputation among investors might be harmed, which might make it more difficult for us to obtain equity capital on attractive terms or at all; and •our profitability would be delayed, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected.Biotechnology stock prices, including our stock price, have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to meet expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval. We may continue to incur substantial losses and our future profitability is uncertain. We last reported net profit from 1985 through 1987. Since 1987, with a major emphasis on new drug diagnostic and development, we have incurred substantial operating losses, as we pursued our clinical trial effort to get our experimental drug, Ampligen®, approved. As of December 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit was approximately $(260,319,000). We have not yet generated significant revenues from our products and may incur substantial and increased losses in the future. We cannot assure that we will ever achieve significant revenues from product sales or become profitable. We require, and will continue to require, the commitment of substantial resources to develop our products. We cannot assure that our product development efforts will be successfully completed or that required regulatory approvals will be obtained or that any products will be manufactured and marketed successfully, or be profitable. We most likely will require additional financing which may not be available. The limitation on the number of shares of common stock available for financing without prior stockholder approval eventually may hinder our ability to raise additional funding. The development of our products requires the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time consuming research, preclinical development, and clinical trials that are necessary to bring pharmaceutical products to market. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $18,194,000 in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (inclusive of approximately $17,391,000 in Marketable Securities). However, if we are unable to commercialize and sell Ampligen® or Alferon® LDO and/or recommence material sales of Alferon N Injection®, our operations, financial position and liquidity may be adversely impacted. In its CRL, the FDA communicated that Hemispherx should conduct at least one additional clinical trial, complete various nonclinical studies and perform a number of data analyses. Until we undertake the end-of-review conference(s) with the FDA, we are unable to reasonably estimate the nature, costs, necessary efforts to obtain FDA clearance or anticipated completion dates of any additional clinical study or studies. Utilizing the industry norms for undertaking a Phase III clinical study, we estimate upon acceptance of the study's design that it would take approximately 18 months to three years to complete a new well-controlled Ampligen® clinical study for resubmission to the FDA. It can be reasonably anticipated that the time and cost to undertake clinical trial(s), studies and data analysis are beyond our current financial resources without gaining access to additional funding. The actual duration to complete the clinical study may be different based on the length of time it takes to design the study and obtain FDA's acceptance of the design, the final design of an acceptable Phase III clinical study design, availability of suitable participants and clinical sites along with other factors that could impact the implementation of the study, analysis of results or requirements of the FDA and/or other governmental organizations.Given the challenging economic conditions, we continue to review every aspect of our operations for cost and spending reductions to assure our long-term financial stability while maintaining the resources necessary to achieve our primary objectives of obtaining NDA approval of Ampligen® along with the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of our products, including Alferon N Injection®. We may also need additional capital to eventually commercialize and sell Ampligen® or Alferon® LDO and/or recommence and increase sales of Alferon N Injection® or our other products. We anticipate considering multiple options in an attempt to secure funding, including but not limited to such methods as the sales of additional equity, licensing agreements, partnering with other organizations, debt financing or other sources of capital. In this regard, on July 23, 2012, we entered into a New Equity Distribution Agreement with Maxim (the “New EDA”) pursuant to which we may sell up to $75,000,000 worth of our shares of Common Stock from time to time through Maxim, as sales agent (See Part I; Item 7 - “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Liquidity and Capital Resources”). We cannot assure how much funding will be obtained from the New EDA or whether it will be sufficient in conjunction with current financial resources to permit us to take all actions needed to obtain FDA approval for Ampligen® and manufacturing, commercialization, marketing and distribution of our products.Our ability to raise additional funds from the sale of equity securities may be limited due to limitations on our ability to sell stock for funding purposes. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the purpose for which 75,000,000 of 150,000,000 of our authorized shares (the “Restricted Shares”) may be utilized is limited. Specifically, without 16stockholder approval, the Restricted Shares can only be issued where such issuance would be primarily in connection with strategic transactions or other non-fundraising purpose that met certain significant criteria. In this regard, 15,562,503 shares are authorized but unissued and unreserved at December 31, 2013 with an additional 75,000,000 of the Restricted Shares approved by Stockholders for certain generally defined business purposes. There can be no assurances that we can obtain the requisite stockholder approval to use any additional Restricted Shares for funding purposes or raise adequate funds from other sources. If we are unable to obtain additional funding, through the New Maxim EDA or otherwise, our ability to develop our products, commercially produce inventory or continue our operations may be materially adversely affected.Our Alferon N Injection® Commercial Sales were halted due to lack of finished goods inventory. If we are unable to gain the necessary FDA approvals related to Alferon®, our operations most likely will be materially and/or adversely affected. Commercial sales of Alferon N Injection® were halted in March 2008 when our finished goods inventory expired. The production of Alferon N Injection® from the Work-In-Process Inventory was restarted in May 2010, continued into January 2011 with its conversion into API.In April 2012, FDA reviewers raised certain questions about the status of our existing lots of older Work-In-Process Alferon® materials and Alferon® API, which would need to be released by the FDA before those materials could be used in commercial product. After conducting all of the appropriate tests on samples of the inventory during 2013, we concluded that we could not alleviate certain questions the FDA had about the older Work-In-Process Alferon N Injection® and their remaining dollar value has been written-off. As we no longer have any existing inventory, commercial sales of Alferon® will not resume until new batches of Alferon® inventory and API can be produced, filled and finished, and released by the FDA for commercial sale. While our facility is FDA approved under the BLA by the FDA for Alferon®, this status will need to be reaffirmed upon the completion of the facility's upgrades for Alferon®. We cannot provide any guarantee that the facility will necessarily pass a FDA pre-approval inspection for Ampligen® or Alferon® manufacture, which are conducted in separately dedicated areas within the overall New Brunswick manufacturing complex. Please see “There is no assurance that our manufacturing facility will again be granted a BLA certification by the FDA upon completion of the manufacturing enhancements or return to commercial, large-scale production” below for more information.If we are unable to gain the necessary FDA approvals related to the manufacturing process and/or final product of new Alferon® inventory, our operations most likely will be materially and/or adversely affected. For more information on Alferon N Injection® regarding potential commercial sales, please see PART I, Item 1 - "Business; Our Products; Alferon N Injection®”.In light of these contingencies, there can be no assurances that the approved Alferon N Injection® product will be returned to production on a timely basis, if at all, or that if and when it is again made commercially available, it will return to prior sales levels. We may not be profitable unless we can protect our patents and/or receive approval for additional pending patents. We need to preserve and acquire enforceable patents covering the use of Ampligen® for a particular disease in order to obtain exclusive rights for the commercial sale of Ampligen® for such disease. We obtained all rights to Alferon N Injection®, and we plan to preserve and acquire enforceable patents covering its use for existing and potentially new diseases. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to preserve and obtain patent protection for our products and to obtain and preserve our trade secrets and expertise. Certain of our know-how and technology is not patentable, particularly the procedures for the manufacture of our experimental drug, Ampligen®. We also have been issued patents on the use of Ampligen® in combination with certain other drugs for the treatment of chronic Hepatitis B virus, chronic Hepatitis C virus, and a patent which affords protection on the use of Ampligen® in patients with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. We have not yet been issued any patents in the United States for the use of Ampligen® as a sole treatment for any of the cancers which we have sought to target. We continually review our patents’ rights to determine whether they have continuing value. Such review includes an analysis of the patent’s ultimate revenue and profitability potential. In addition, Management’s review addresses whether each patent continues to fit into our strategic business plans for Ampligen®, Alferon N Injection® and Alferon® LDO. One U.S. patent relating to our Alferon® product expired on April 2, 2013 (#5,503,828) (see discussion below on patent #5,503,828), while two other Alferon® patents expire on October 14, 2014 (#5,676,942) and December 22, 2017 (#5,989,441). In 2013, we were granted four new patents, one in Singapore for the use of Ampligen to initiate innate immunity and to treat or prevent viral infections and tumors, and three for the use of Alferon LDO to treat bacterial or protozoan infections in Australia, New Zealand and Singapore. In 2012, we were granted two new patents, one in Australia and the other in New Zealand, both for the use of Ampligen to initiate 17innate immunity and to treat or prevent viral infections and tumors. In December 2011, we were granted two new United States Patents for the use of Alferon® LDO for the treatment in a number of different human diseases. Alferon® composition patent #5,503,828, which expired in April 2013, relates to the manufacturing process for Alferon® Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (“API”), a complex mixture of natural interferon species that is manufactured from human leukocytes obtained from human blood donors. In addition, while it is the current standard by the FDA to treat biological drug products like interferon as “Well Characterized” biologics, a process for which chemical entities can have their identity, purity, impurities, potency, and quality controlled by chemical testing, Alferon®, as a natural interferon, does not lend itself well to such testing. Moreover, FDA continues to require that each lot or Alferon we produce be tested and released by the FDA before it can be distributed for commercial sales. Because of the complexity of the Alferon manufacturing process and these additional regulatory requirements, we believe that potential manufacturers of generic, or so-called “bio-similar,” drug products are focused on developing recombinant interferon products, rather than natural interferon products. For these reasons, we believe the expiration of this Alferon® composition patent in April 2013 should have no or little impact on the Company. Additionally at the completion of the facility enhancement and receipt of the FDA certification for the revised Alferon® manufacturing process and techniques in New Brunswick, NJ, it is our intention to file for additional patent protection.Alferon® patent #5,676,942 relates to a manufacturing methodology which is no longer in use. We cannot assure that our competitors will not seek and obtain patents regarding the use of similar products in combination with various other agents, for a particular target indication prior to our doing so. If we cannot protect our patents covering the use of our products for a particular disease, or obtain additional patents, we may not be able to successfully market our products.The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of protection afforded by pharmaceutical and biotechnology patents. There can be no assurance that new patent applications relating to our products, process or technology will result in patents being issued or that, if issued, such patents will afford meaningful protection against competitors with similar technology. It is generally anticipated that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and intellectual property rights. Such litigation could require substantial resources from us and we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce the patent rights that we hold. No assurance can be made that our patents will provide competitive advantages for our products, process and technology or will not be successfully challenged by competitors. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist or could not be filed which would have a materially adverse effect on our ability to develop or market our products or to obtain or maintain any competitive position that we may achieve with respect to our products. Our patents also may not prevent others from developing competitive products or process using related technology. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary licenses if we cannot enforce patent rights we may hold. In addition, the failure of third parties from whom we currently license certain proprietary information or from whom we may be required to obtain such licenses in the future, to adequately enforce their rights to such proprietary information, could adversely affect the value of such licenses to us. If we cannot enforce the patent rights we currently hold we may be required to obtain licenses from others to develop, manufacture or market our products. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We currently license certain proprietary information from third parties, some of which may have been developed with government grants under circumstances where the government maintained certain rights with respect to the proprietary information developed. No assurances can be given that such third parties will adequately enforce any rights they may have or that the rights, if any, retained by the government will not adversely affect the value of our license. There is no guarantee that our trade secrets will not be disclosed or known by our competitors. To protect our rights, we require all employees and certain consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate and enforceable remedies for any breach, or that any trade secrets of ours will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We have limited marketing and sales capability. If we are unable to obtain additional distributors and our current and future distributors do not market our products successfully, we may not generate significant revenues or become profitable. We have limited marketing and sales capability. We are dependent upon existing and, possibly future, marketing agreements and third party distribution agreements for our products in order to generate significant revenues and become profitable. 18As a result, any revenues received by us will be dependent in large part on the efforts of third parties, and there is no assurance that these efforts will be successful. Our commercialization strategy for Ampligen® for CFS, if and when it is approved for marketing and sale by the FDA, may include licensing/co-marketing agreements utilizing the resources and capacities of a strategic partner(s). We continue to seek world-wide marketing partner(s), with the goal of having a relationship in place before approval is obtained. In parallel to partnering discussions, appropriate pre-marketing activities will be undertaken. It is our current intention to control manufacturing of Ampligen® on a world-wide basis.Our commercialization strategy for Alferon N Injection® may include the utilization of internal functions and/or licensing/co-marketing agreements that would utilize the resources and capacities of one or more strategic partners. Accordingly, we have engaged Armada Healthcare to undertake the marketing, education and sales of Alferon N Injection® throughout the United States along with GP Pharm for both Ampligen® and Alferon® in Argentina along with other South and Latin American countries.We cannot assure that our U.S. or foreign marketing strategy will be successful or that we will be able to establish future marketing or third party distribution agreements on terms acceptable to us, or that the cost of establishing these arrangements will not exceed any product revenues. Our inability to establish viable marketing and sales capabilities would most likely have a materially adverse effect on us. There can be no assurances that the approved Alferon N Injection® product will be returned to prior sales levels. There are no long-term agreements with suppliers of required materials and services for Ampligen® and there are a limited number of raw material suppliers. If we are unable to obtain the required raw materials and/or services, we may not be able to manufacture Ampligen®. A number of essential raw materials are used in the production of Ampligen® as well as packaging materials utilized in the fill and finish process. We do not have, but continue to work towards having long-term agreements for the supply of such materials, when possible. There can be no assurance we can enter into long-term supply agreements covering essential materials on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. There are a limited number of suppliers in the United States available to provide the raw and packaging materials for use in manufacturing Ampligen®. At present, we do not have any agreements with third parties for the supply of any of these materials. We have established relevant manufacturing operations within our New Brunswick, New Jersey facility for the production of Ampligen® polymers from raw materials in order to obtain a more consistent manufacturing basis in the quantities necessary for clinical testing. In September 2011 and similar to our prior agreements, Hollister-Stier has agreed to undertake the manufacturing sets to formulate, fill, finish and package Ampligen® from the key polymers that we would supply. Hollister-Stier would have the right of first refusal to manufacture certain Ampligen® related products. For more information on Ampligen®, please see Part I, Item 1 - "Business; Our Products; Ampligen®”.If we are unable to obtain or manufacture the required materials, and/or procure services needed in the final steps in the manufacturing process, we may be unable to manufacture Ampligen®. The costs and availability of products and materials we need for the production of Ampligen® are subject to fluctuation depending on a variety of factors beyond our control, including competitive factors, changes in technology, ownership of intellectual property, FDA and other governmental regulations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such products and materials on terms acceptable to us or at all. There are a limited number of organizations in the United States available to provide the final manufacturing steps of formulation, fill, finish and packing sets for Alferon N Injection® and Ampligen®. There are a limited number of organizations in the United States available to provide the final steps in the manufacturing for Alferon N Injection® and Ampligen®. To formulate, fill, finish and package our products (“fill and finish”), we require a FDA approved third party CMO. In January 2012, we agreed to a Technology, Transfer, Validation and Commercial Supply Agreement with Althea Technologies, Inc. regarding the fill and finish process for Alferon N Injection® (please see Part I, Item 1 - “Business; Our Products; Alferon N Injection®”. As we no longer have any existing inventory, commercial sales of Alferon® will not resume until new batches of Alferon® inventory and API can be produced, filled and finished, and released by the FDA for commercial sale.Pursuant our Supply Agreement with Hollister-Stier, they will formulate, fill, finish and package Ampligen® from the key raw materials that we would supply. We are unable to provide any assurances that the FDA will approve the inventory 19manufactured by us or produced by Hollister-Stier. If this finish goods inventory is not granted approval by the FDA, our operations may be materially adversely affected. This Supply Agreement, as amended extends through March 11, 2014. If we are unable to procure services needed in the final steps in the manufacturing process, we may be unable to manufacture Alferon N Injection® and/or Ampligen®. The costs and availability of products and materials we need for the production of Ampligen® and the commercial production of Alferon N Injection® and other products which we may commercially produce are subject to fluctuation depending on a variety of factors beyond our control, including competitive factors, changes in technology, and FDA and other governmental regulations and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such products and materials on terms acceptable to us or at all. For more information on Ampligen® and Alferon N Injection®, please see Part I, Item 1 - “Business; Our Products; Ampligen® and Alferon N Injection®”. There is no assurance that our manufacturing facility will again be granted a BLA certification by the FDA upon completion of the manufacturing enhancements or return to commercial, large-scale production.We are currently in the Installation and Operation Qualification phase for Alferon® production of the enhancement project. The production of new Alferon® API inventory will not commence until the validation phase is completed. While the facility is approved by FDA under the BLA for Alferon®, this status will need to be reaffirmed upon the completion of the facility's enhancements prior to commercial sale of newly produced inventory product. If and when we obtain a reaffirmation of FDA BLA status and have begun production of new Alferon® API, we will need FDA approval as to the quality and stability of the final product to allow commercial sales to resume. We anticipate that it will take approximately eighteen months before we will have newly produced Alferon® API ready for submission to the FDA for review and approval. For more information, please see Part I, Item 1 - “Business; Our Products; Alferon N Injection®”. There can be no assurance the BLA status will be recertified by the FDA upon the completion of the enhancement process or that the manufacturing facility will return to commercial, large-scale production for Alferon®. Additionally, there can be no assurance that any given product will be determined to be safe and effective, or capable of being manufactured under applicable quality standards. Only if and when our BLA status is recertified by the FDA to produce new lots of Alferon® at our enhanced manufacturing facility can batches of Alferon® API be produced, formulated, filled, finished, packaged and then approved for release by the FDA. We are unable to provide any assurances that the FDA will approve our enhanced manufacturing process and/or newly created finish product lots. Without FDA approval, our Alferon N Injection® will not be considered suitable for commercial sales. In light of these contingencies, there can be no assurances that the approved Alferon N Injection® product will be returned to commercial production or sale on a timely basis, if at all, or that if and when it is again made commercially available, it will return to prior sales levels. There is no assurance that upon successful manufacture of a drug on a limited scale basis for investigational use will lead to a successful transition to commercial, large-scale production.Changes in methods of manufacturing, including commercial scale-up, may affect the chemical structure of Ampligen® and other RNA drugs, as well as their safety and efficacy. The transition from limited production of pre-clinical and clinical research quantities to production of commercial quantities of our products will involve distinct management and technical challenges and may require additional management, technical personnel and capital to the extent such manufacturing is not handled by third parties. While we believe that the Company could successfully upgrade our production capability at our New Brunswick, NJ facility in a commercial scale-up of Ampligen®, there can be no assurance that our manufacturing will be successful or that any given product will be determined to be safe and effective, or capable of being manufactured under applicable quality standards, economically, and in commercial quantities, or successfully marketed. We have limited manufacturing experience for Ampligen® and Alferon®. We may not be profitable unless we can produce Ampligen®, Alferon® or other products in commercial quantities at costs acceptable to us. Satisfactory inspection by the FDA of both our Ampligen® and Alferon® manufacturing process is required before commercial sale of project would be allowed. The CRL from the FDA on February 1, 2013, requests evaluation of variation between lots of Ampligen® tested in the development process and recommends tighter control of the Ampligen® manufacturing process. We cannot provide any guarantee that the facility will pass a FDA pre-approval inspection for Ampligen® or Alferon® manufacture, which are conducted in separately dedicated areas within the overall New Brunswick manufacturing complex. The failure to obtain FDA approval for either of our manufacturing process areas would most likely have a materially adverse impact upon us.20Ampligen® has been produced to date in limited quantities for use in our clinical trials, and we are dependent upon a qualified third party supplier for the manufacturing, filling, finish and packaging process. The failure to continue these arrangements or to achieve other such arrangements on satisfactory terms could have a material adverse effect on us. In furtherance of the capital improvement program at our New Brunswick, NJ facility to upgrade our manufacturing capability to produce bulk quantities of Alferon N Injection® API, the validation phase of the Alferon® manufacturing project is currently underway as we undertake the Installation and Operation Qualification phase of the enhancement project. While the facility is approved by FDA under the BLA for Alferon®, this status will need to be reaffirmed upon the completion of the facility's enhancements prior to commercial sale of newly produced inventory product. If and when we obtain a reaffirmation of FDA BLA status and have begun production of new Alferon® API, we will need FDA approval as to the quality and stability of the final product to allow commercial sales to resume. We anticipate that it will take until at least the second half of 2014 before we will have newly produced Alferon® API ready for submission to the FDA for review and approval. In light of these contingencies, there can be no assurances that the approved Alferon N Injection® product will be returned to production on a timely basis, if at all. The failure to obtain FDA approval of any of our manufacturing process would most likely have a materially adverse impact upon us.Also to be successful, our products must be manufactured in commercial quantities in compliance with regulatory requirements and at acceptable costs. We believe, but cannot assure, that our enhancements to our manufacturing facilities will be adequate for our future needs for the production of our proposed products for large-scale commercialization. We intend to ramp up our existing facility and/or utilize third party facilities if and when the need arises or, if we are unable to do so, to build or acquire commercial-scale manufacturing facilities. We will need to comply with regulatory requirements for such facilities, including those of the FDA pertaining to cGMP requirements or maintaining our BLA status. There can be no assurance that such facilities can be used, built, or acquired on commercially acceptable terms, or that such facilities, if used, built, or acquired, will be adequate for the production of our proposed products for large-scale commercialization or our long-term needs. We have never produced Ampligen®, Alferon® or any other products in large commercial quantities. We must manufacture our products in compliance with regulatory requirements in large commercial quantities and at acceptable costs in order for us to be profitable. We intend to utilize third party manufacturers and/or facilities if and when the need arises or, if we are unable to do so, to build or acquire commercial-scale manufacturing facilities. If we cannot manufacture commercial quantities of Ampligen® and/or Alferon®, or continue to maintain third party agreements for its manufacture at costs acceptable to us, our operations will be significantly affected. If and when the Ampligen® NDA is approved, we may need to find an additional vendor to manufacture the product for commercial sales. Also, each production lot of Alferon N Injection® is subject to FDA review and approval prior to releasing the lots to be sold. This review and approval process could take considerable time, which would delay our having product in inventory to sell, nor can we provide any assurance as to the receipt of FDA approval of our finished inventory product. There can be no assurances that the Ampligen® and/or Alferon® can be commercially produced at costs acceptable to us. Rapid technological change may render our products obsolete or non-competitive. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Technological competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. Most of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities than us, as well as substantial marketing, financial and managerial resources, and represent significant competition for us. There can be no assurance that developments by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive or that we will be able to keep pace with technological developments. Our products may be subject to substantial competition. Ampligen®. Competitors may be developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. Some of these potential products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing similar therapeutic effects to products being developed by us. These competing products may be more effective and less costly than our products. In addition, conventional drug therapy, surgery and other more familiar treatments may offer competition to our products. Furthermore, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in preclinical testing and human clinical trials of pharmaceutical products and in obtaining FDA, HPB and other regulatory approvals of products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA, HPB or other regulatory product approvals more rapidly than us. There are no drugs approved for commercial sale with respect to treating CFS in the United States. The dominant competitors with drugs to treat disease indications in which we plan to address include Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck & Co., Novartis and AstraZeneca. Biotech competitors include Baxter International, Fletcher/CSI, AVANT Immunotherapeutics, AVI BioPharma and Genta. These potential competitors are among the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world, are well known to the public and the medical community, 21and have substantially greater financial resources, product development, and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. Although we believe our principal advantage is the unique mechanism of action of Ampligen® on the immune system, we cannot assure that we will be able to compete.Alferon N Injection®. Our competitors are among the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world, are well known to the public and the medical community, and have substantially greater financial resources, product development, and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. Alferon N Injection® currently competes with Merck's injectable recombinant alpha interferon product (INTRON® A) for the treatment of genital warts. In addition, other pharmaceutical firms offer self-administered topical cream, for the treatment of external genital and perianal warts such as Graceway Pharmaceuticals (Aldara®), Watson Pharma (Condylox®) and MediGene (Veregen®). Alferon N Injection® also competes with surgical, chemical, and other methods of treating genital warts. We cannot assess the impact products developed by our competitors, or advances in other methods of the treatment of genital warts, will have on the commercial viability of Alferon N Injection®. If and when we obtain additional approvals of uses of this product, we expect to compete primarily on the basis of product performance. Our competitors have developed or may develop products (containing either alpha or beta interferon or other therapeutic compounds) or other treatment modalities for those uses. There can be no assurance that, if we are able to obtain regulatory approval of Alferon N Injection® for the treatment of new indications, we will be able to achieve any significant penetration into those markets. In addition, because certain competitive products are not dependent on a source of human blood cells, such products may be able to be produced in greater volume and at a lower cost than Alferon N Injection®. Currently, our wholesale price on a per unit basis of Alferon N Injection® is higher than that of the competitive recombinant alpha and beta interferon products. Please see “We may not be profitable unless we can protect our patents and/or receive approval for additional pending patents" above for additional information. General. Other companies may succeed in developing products earlier than we do, obtaining approvals for such products from the FDA more rapidly than we do, or developing products that are more effective than those we may develop. While we will attempt to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, there can be no assurance that research and development by others or other medical advances will not render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy we develop. Possible side effects from the use of Ampligen® or Alferon N Injection® could adversely affect potential revenues and physician/patient acceptability of our product. Ampligen®. We believe that Ampligen® has been generally well tolerated with a low incidence of clinical toxicity, particularly given the severely debilitating or life threatening diseases that have been treated. A mild flushing reaction has been observed in approximately 15-20% of patients treated in our various studies. This reaction is occasionally accompanied by a rapid heartbeat, a tightness of the chest, urticaria (swelling of the skin), anxiety, shortness of breath, subjective reports of “feeling hot”, sweating and nausea. The reaction is usually infusion-rate related and can generally be controlled by reducing the rate of infusion. Other adverse side effects include liver enzyme level elevations, diarrhea, itching, asthma, low blood pressure, photophobia, rash, visual disturbances, slow or irregular heart rate, decreases in platelets and white blood cell counts, anemia, dizziness, confusion, elevation of kidney function tests, occasional temporary hair loss and various flu-like symptoms, including fever, chills, fatigue, muscular aches, joint pains, headaches, nausea and vomiting. These flu-like side effects typically subside within several months. The FDA in its February 1, 2013 CRL, set forth the reasons for not approving Ampligen® at this time and provided recommendations to address certain of the outstanding issues. The Agency stated that the submitted data do not provide substantial evidence of efficacy of Ampligen® for the treatment of CFS and that the data do not provide sufficient information to determine whether the product is safe for use in CFS due to the limited size of the safety database and multiple discrepancies within the submitted data. If approved, one or more of the potential side effects of the drug might deter usage of Ampligen® in certain clinical situations and therefore, could adversely affect potential revenues and physician/patient acceptability of our product. Alferon N Injection®. At present, Alferon N Injection® is only approved for the intralesional (within the lesion) treatment of refractory or recurring external genital warts in adults. In clinical trials conducted for the treatment of genital warts with Alferon N Injection®, patients did not experience serious side effects; however, there can be no assurance that unexpected or unacceptable side effects will not be found in the future for this use or other potential uses of Alferon N Injection® which could threaten or limit such product's usefulness.22We may be subject to product liability claims from the use of Ampligen®, Alferon N Injection®, or other of our products which could negatively affect our future operations. We have limited product liability insurance. We maintain Products Liability and Clinical Trial insurance coverage world-wide for Ampligen® and Alferon®. However even with retaining Products Liability and Clinical Trial insurance coverage for Ampligen®, Alferon N Injection® and Alferon® LDO, a claim against the products could have a materially adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of Ampligen®, Alferon N Injection® or other of our products results in adverse effects. This liability might result from claims made directly by patients, hospitals, clinics or other consumers, or by pharmaceutical companies or others manufacturing these products on our behalf. Our future operations may be negatively affected from the litigation costs, settlement expenses and lost product sales inherent to these claims. While we will continue to attempt to take appropriate precautions, we cannot assure that we will avoid significant product liability exposure. The loss of services of key personnel including Dr. William A. Carter could hurt our chances for success. Our success is dependent on the continued efforts of our staff, especially certain doctors and researchers along with the continued efforts of Dr. William A. Carter because of his position as a pioneer in the field of nucleic acid drugs, his being the co-inventor of Ampligen®, and his knowledge of our overall activities, including patents and clinical trials. The loss of the services of Dr. Carter or other personnel key to our operations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and chances for success. As a cash conservation measure, we have elected to discontinue the Key Man life insurance on the life of Dr. Carter. An employment agreement continues to exist with Dr. Carter that, as amended, runs until December 31, 2016. However, Dr. Carter has the right to terminate his employment upon not less than 30 days prior written notice. The loss of Dr. Carter or other key personnel or the failure to recruit additional personnel as needed could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to achieve our objectives. Uncertainty of health care reimbursement for our products. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatment will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, and from time to time legislation is proposed, which, if adopted, could further restrict the prices charged by and/or amounts reimbursable to manufacturers of pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict what, if any, legislation will ultimately be adopted or the impact of such legislation on us. There can be no assurance that third party insurance companies will allow us to charge and receive payments for products sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. There are risks of liabilities associated with handling and disposing of hazardous materials. Our business involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, carcinogenic chemicals, flammable solvents and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident or the failure to comply with applicable regulations, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could be significant. We do not maintain insurance coverage against such liabilities. A Securities Federal Class Action and Four Shareholder Derivative Actions Have Been Filed Against Us and We May Be Subject to Civil Liabilities. As described below in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e), five actions have been filed against Hemispherx and certain of its Officers and Directors: a putative class action alleging violations of the federal securities laws and seeking monetary damages, costs, and attorneys' fees; and four shareholder derivative actions alleging various state law breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment claims along with seeking monetary damages, costs, attorneys' fees, and equitable and injunctive relief. Defending against these suits, even if meritless, can result in substantial costs to us and could divert the attention of our management.The existence of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access the capital markets to raise additional funds. While Management believes that the lawsuits are without merit, we cannot predict or determine the timing or final outcomes of the lawsuits and are unable to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes. 23Adverse results in some or all of these legal proceedings could be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Risks Associated With an Investment in Our Common Stock: The market price of our stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to be volatile. This is especially true given the current significant instability in the financial markets. In addition to general economic, political and market conditions, the price and trading volume of our stock could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including:•announcements of the results of clinical trials by us or our competitors;•announcements of availability or projections of our products for commercial sale;•announcements of legal actions against us and/or settlements or verdicts adverse to us;•adverse reactions to products;•governmental approvals, delays in expected governmental approvals or withdrawals of any prior governmental approvals or public or regulatory agency comments regarding the safety or effectiveness of our products, or the adequacy of the procedures, facilities or controls employed in the manufacture of our products;•changes in U.S. or foreign regulatory policy during the period of product development;•developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including any third party challenges of our intellectual property rights;•announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors;•announcements of new products or new contracts by us or our competitors;•actual or anticipated variations in our operating results due to the level of development expenses and other factors;•changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our earnings meet or exceed the estimates;•conditions and trends in the pharmaceutical and other industries;•new accounting standards;•overall investment market fluctuation;•restatement of prior financial results;•notice of NYSE MKT non-compliance with requirements; and•occurrence of any of the risks described in these "Risk Factors".Our common stock is listed for quotation on the NYSE MKT. For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from $0.18 to $0.41 per share. We expect the price of our common stock to remain volatile. The average daily trading volume of our common stock varies significantly. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of the securities of companies in our industry, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies in our industry. In this regard, please see “A Securities Federal Class Action and Four Shareholder Derivative Actions Have Been Filed Against Us and We May Be Subject to Civil Liabilities" above. Our stock price may be adversely affected if a significant amount of shares are sold in the public market. In May 2009, we issued an aggregate of 25,543,339 shares and warrants to purchase an additional 14,708,687 shares under a Universal Shelf Registration Statement. 4,895,000 of these warrants have been exercised as of both December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate selling 9,813,687 shares pursuant to the conversion of remaining warrants. Additionally, we registered with the SEC on September 29, 2009, 1,038,527 shares issuable upon exercise of certain other warrants. To the extent the exercise price of our outstanding warrants is less than the market price of the common stock, the holders of the warrants are likely to exercise them and sell the underlying shares of common stock and to the extent that the exercise price of certain of these warrants are adjusted pursuant to anti-dilution protection, the warrants could be exercisable or convertible for even more shares of common stock. We also may issue shares to be used to meet our capital requirements or use shares to compensate employees, consultants and/or Directors. In this regard, we have registered $150,000,000 of securities for public sale pursuant to a universal shelf registration statement and we have been selling shares under this shelf registration statement and the New EDA with Maxim. Through December 31, 2013, we had sold an aggregate of approximately 30,470,000 shares under the New EDA. 24Pursuant to the New Maxim EDA, we may sell up to $75,000,000 worth of our shares of Common Stock from time to time through Maxim, as sales agent. While we have no obligation to sell any of the Shares and may at any time suspend offers under the New Maxim EDA or terminate the EDA, the sale of substantial numbers of Shares under the EDA may have an adverse impact on the trading value of the stock. We are unable to estimate the amount, timing or nature of future sales of outstanding common stock or instruments convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including additional sale of securities pursuant to the New EDA with Maxim or otherwise under the universal shelf registration statement or upon exercise of outstanding options, could cause the market price for our common stock to decrease. Furthermore, a decline in the price of our common stock would likely impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law could defer a change of our Management which could discourage or delay offers to acquire us. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or for our stockholders to remove existing management, and might discourage a third party from offering to acquire us, even if a change in control or in Management would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our Certificate of Incorporation allows us to issue shares of preferred stock without any vote or further action by our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In this regard, on November 2, 2012, we amended and restated our Stockholder Rights Plan (“Rights Plan”) and, under the Rights Plan, our Board of Directors declared a dividend distribution of one Right for each outstanding share of Common Stock to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 29, 2002. Each Right initially entitles holders to buy one-hundredth unit of preferred stock for $30.00 and may be redeemed prior to November 19, 2017, the expiration date, at $0.001 per Right under certain circumstances. The Rights generally are not transferable apart from the common stock and will not be exercisable unless and until a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock. At December 31, 2013, for Dr. Carter, our Chief Executive Officer and President, who already beneficially owns approximately 5.28% of our common stock, the Rights Plan’s threshold will be 20%, instead of 15%. Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements Because the risk factors referred to above could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict which will arise. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Our research in clinical efforts may continue for the next several years and we may continue to incur losses due to clinical costs incurred in the development of Ampligen® for commercial application. Possible losses may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of differences in the timing of significant expenses incurred and receipt of licensing fees and/or cost recovery treatment revenue.25ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.