Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or business. The risks and uncertainties described below are the not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. Economic conditions may adversely affect First Defiance’s operations and financial condition. Local Economic Conditions - First Defiance conducts its banking and insurance business primarily in northwest Ohio, northeast Indiana and southeast Michigan. Unemployment rates for most of the counties within our geographic market area are above the median rate for the United States and above the median rates for the States of Ohio, Indiana, and Michigan. As reported for December 2012, the 14 counties in which our offices are located had unemployment rates between 5.2% and 10.9%, but all experienced an improvement in their unemployment rate in 2012 compared to 2011. In addition, real estate values in certain First Defiance’s markets have declined and may continue to decline in 2013. High unemployment and declining real estate values have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings and financial condition because: ·more borrowers are unable to make payments on their loans; ·the value of collateral securing loans has declined; and ·the overall quality of the loan portfolio has declined. General Economic Conditions - Dramatic declines in real estate values, along with high unemployment, disrupted the national credit and capital markets over the last several years. As a result, many financial institutions have had to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection and, in some cases; they have been forced into a sale or closed by the bank regulatory agencies. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions, because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. The reduced availability of credit, the lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While economic conditions are beginning to improve slightly, First Defiance faces the following risks: ·inability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; ·increased regulation of the financial services industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations; compliance with such regulation will likely increase costs and may limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities; ·further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions; ·increased competition among financial services companies due to the consolidation of financial institutions, which may adversely affect our ability to market the Company’s products and services; and - 22 - ·further increases in FDIC insurance premiums due to the market developments which have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Declining Real Estate Values - Approximately 74.1% of the loans in First Federal’s portfolio are secured in whole or in part by real estate. Because residential real estate prices have declined, some of our borrowers have mortgages that exceed the value of their homes. The decline in home values, coupled with the weakened economy, has increased defaults and foreclosures. Commercial real estate values have also declined, and the owners of many income-producing properties are experiencing declines in their revenue, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their loans. Foreclosures and resolutions of nonperforming loans require significant personnel resources and involve other costs that may increase our operating expenses. Properties acquired through foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure are taking longer to sell in the current economy, which increases the Company’s expenses for managing, maintaining and insuring real estate owned. If First Federal is unable to sell properties at a price that will cover its expenses as well as the unpaid principal and interest on the loan, the resulting write-downs and losses will adversely affect First Defiance’s net income. The reduced levels of home sales have had a materially adverse effect on the prices achieved on the sale of foreclosed properties. Further decline in home values may escalate these problems, resulting in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs, and increased losses on the sale of foreclosed real estate in future periods. Volatile Capital Markets - The capital and credit markets have experienced severe volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on credit availability for certain issuers. Continuing market disruption and volatility could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. First Defiance’s stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the underlying performance of First Defiance. General market price declines and overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of its common stock, and the current market price of the stock may not be indicative of future market prices. First Defiance’s stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: ·Actions by government regulators; ·First Defiance’s announcements of developments related to its business; ·Fluctuation in our results of operation; ·Sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; ·New reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry. First Defiance’s loan portfolio includes a concentration of commercial real estate loans and commercial loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value and the successful operations of these businesses. At December 31, 2012, First Federal’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $797.4 million, or approximately 51.6% of total loans. First Federal’s commercial real estate loans typically have higher principal amounts than residential real estate loans, and many of our commercial real estate borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. As a result, an adverse development on one loan can expose First Defiance to greater risk of loss on other loans. Additionally, repayment of the loans is generally dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic conditions and events outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. - 23 - At December 31, 2012, First Federal’s portfolio of commercial loans totaled $383.8 million, or approximately 24.9% of total loans. Commercial loans generally expose First Defiance to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than commercial real estate or residential real estate loans since repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. First Federal’s commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower such as accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. First Defiance targets its business lending towards small and medium-sized businesses, many of which have fewer financial resources than larger companies and may be more susceptible to economic downturns. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, First Defiance’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Increases to the allowance for loan losses may cause First Defiance’s earnings to decrease. First Federal makes a number of assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, First Federal relies on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If its assumptions prove to be incorrect, First Federal’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to the allowance. In addition, bank regulators periodically review First Federal’s allowance and may require First Federal to increase its allowance. Material additions to the allowance and any loan losses that exceed First Federal’s reserves would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates can adversely affect First Defiance’s profitability First Defiance’s earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including: ·the rate of inflation; ·economic conditions; ·federal monetary policies; and ·stability of domestic and foreign markets. Because First Defiance’s interest-bearing liabilities may reprice or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates could result in a decrease in First Defiance’s net interest income. First Federal originates a significant amount of residential mortgage loans that it sells in the secondary market. The origination of residential mortgage loans is highly dependent on the local real estate market and the current interest rates. Increasing interest rates tend to reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently fee income, which First Defiance reports as mortgage banking income. Conversely, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of mortgage servicing rights on the loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, First Defiance may be required to write down the value of its mortgage servicing rights faster than anticipated, which will increase expense and lower earnings. Accelerated repayments on loans and mortgage backed securities could result in the reinvestment of funds at lower rates than the loans or securities were paying. - 24 - Laws and regulations may affect First Defiance’s results of operations. The earnings of financial institutions are affected by the regulations and policies of various regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the money supply, and the Federal Reserve which regulates the Company and OCC which regulates First Federal, and the FDIC, which regulates First Federal. The Federal Reserve has extensive supervisory authority over the Company, affecting a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of First Defiance’s shares, First Defiance’s acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for the Company to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of operations. These supervisory and regulatory powers are intended primarily for the protection for First Defiance’s depositors and customers and the deposit insurance fund, rather than First Defiance’s shareholders. In connection with its supervision of First Defiance, it’s former primary regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), which was eliminated and replaced by the Federal Reserve, and the Company entered into a memorandum of understanding, which is a tool employed by bank regulatory agencies to address areas of concern to the regulator. The memorandum for the Company requires that it submit to the Federal Reserve specific strategies for increasing and maintaining capital at targets, to be established by First Defiance’s board of directors that are commensurate with First Defiance’s risk profile. At December 31, 2012, the Company and First Federal’s capital ratios exceeded all the regulatory thresholds to be considered “well-capitalized.” The memorandum also requires that First Defiance obtain approval from the Federal Reserve before it pays any dividends, including dividends on common shares, or incur, issue, renew, or rollover any debt. First Federal also agreed to a memorandum of understanding with the OTS, which was eliminated and replaced by the OCC, the principal terms of which related to First Federal’s risk profile and asset quality. First Federal’s memorandum was terminated in February 2013. Comprehensive revisions to the regulatory capital framework were proposed by the FRB, OCC, and FDIC in June 2012. Included within those revisions is the Basel III, which incorporates changes made by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to the Basel Capital framework in addition to implementing relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Basel III specifically revises what qualifies as regulatory capital, raises minimum requirements and introduces the concept of additional capital buffers. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity going forward could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. In addition, the new liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time. As a result of ongoing challenges facing the U.S. economy in particular, the potential exists for new laws and regulations, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Increased regulation could increase First Defiance’s cost of compliance and reduce its income to the extent that they limit the manner in which First Defiance may conduct business, including its ability to offer new products, charge fees for specific products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. First Defiance’s ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost may adversely affect net income. First Defiance’s principal sources of liquidity are local deposits and wholesale funding sources such as FHLB advances, Federal Funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and brokered or other out-of-market certificate of deposit purchases. Also, First Defiance maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. First Defiance’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize its activities or on terms that are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect First Defiance directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as further disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. - 25 - Other possible sources of liquidity include the sale or securitization of loans, the issuance of additional collateralized borrowings beyond those currently utilized with the FHLB, the issuance of debt securities and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions, or borrowings from a commercial bank. First Defiance does not currently have any borrowings from a commercial bank, but it has used them in the past. Pursuant to the MOU, First Defiance must obtain Federal Reserve approval before incurring or issuing any debt. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to First Defiance’s shareholders, or fulfill obligations such as repaying First Defiance’s borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition affects First Defiance’s earnings. First Defiance’s continued profitability depends on its ability to continue to effectively compete to originate loans and attract and retain deposits. Competition for both loans and deposits is intense in the financial services industry. The Company competes in its market area by offering superior service and competitive rates and products. The type of institutions First Defiance competes with include large regional commercial banks, smaller community banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance agencies and mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of First Defiance’s competitors can offer a broader range of products and services than the Company can offer. To stay competitive in its market area, First Defiance may need to adjust the interest rates on its products to match rates of its competition, which could have a negative impact on net interest margin. The increasing complexity of First Defiance’s operations presents varied risks that could affect its earnings and financial condition. First Defiance processes a large volume of transactions on a daily basis and is exposed to numerous types of risks related to internal processes, people and systems. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, breaches of data security and our internal control system and compliance with a complex array of consumer and safety and soundness regulations. First Defiance could also experience additional loss as a result of potential legal actions that could arise as a result of operational deficiencies or as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. First Defiance has established and maintains a system of internal controls that provides management with information on a timely basis and allows for the monitoring of compliance with operational standards. These systems have been designed to manage operational risks at an appropriate, cost effective level. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. Losses from operational risks may still occur, however, including losses from the effects of operational errors. First Defiance’s operations are also dependent on its existing infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of vital infrastructure as a result of fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failures, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic response to such activity, or other events outside of the control of management could have a material adverse impact on its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. First Defiance has a business recovery plan, but there are no assurances that such a plan will work as intended or that it will prevent significant interruptions to operations. - 26 - Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of the Company’s computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm its business. In the normal course of business, First Defiance collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of First Defiance and other third parties. Despite the security measures the Company has in place, First Defiance’s facilities and systems, and those of the Company’s third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, lost or misplaced data, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential customer information, whether by First Defiance or by the Company’s third party vendors, could severely damage First Defiance’s reputation, expose the Company to risks of litigation and liability, disrupt First Defiance’s operations and have a material adverse effect on First Defiance’s business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 