Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are the not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Economy The Company operates its banking and insurance business units within the geographic area comprised of the northwest corner of Ohio, northeast Indiana and southeast Michigan. Weaknesses in this geographic market area could be caused by such factors as an increase in the unemployment rate, a decrease in real estate values, or significant increases in interest rates. Any such weakness could have a negative impact on First Defiance’s earnings and financial condition because: • Demand for financial products and services may go down; • Borrowers may be unable to make payments on their loans; • The value of collateral securing loans may decline; • The overall quality of the loan portfolio may decline; and • Local market-area deposits may decline, impacting the Company’s cost of funding and its liquidity. Dramatic declines in the housing market beginning in the latter half of 2007, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and underemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. Accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. -23- Table of Contents As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Inability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Increased regulation of the financial services industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase costs and may limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies, which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to market our products and services. • Further increases in FDIC insurance premiums due to the market developments which have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that First Defiance will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price for First Defiance’s common shares has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: • announcements of developments related to our business; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • general conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • our announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. Interest Rate Risk The earnings and financial condition of First Defiance are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of the spread between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. -24- Table of Contents Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including: • The rate of inflation; • Economic conditions; • Federal monetary policies; and • Stability of domestic and foreign markets. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of prepayments on loans as well as the payments received on mortgage backed securities, requiring the reinvestment at lower rates than the loans or securities were paying. First Federal originates a significant amount of residential mortgage loans for sale and for our portfolio. The origination of residential mortgage loans is highly dependent on the local real estate market and the level of interest rates. Increasing interest rates tend to reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently fee income, which we report as mortgage banking income. Conversely, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of mortgage servicing rights on the loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, the Company may be required to write down the value of our mortgage servicing rights faster than anticipated, which will increase expense and lower earnings. Credit Risk First Defiance’s earnings and financial condition may be adversely affected if the Company fails to adequately manage credit risk. The Company’s primary business is the origination and underwriting of loans. This business requires the Company to take “credit risk” which is the risk of losing principal and interest income because borrowers fail to repay their loans. The ability of borrowers to repay their loans and the value of collateral securing such loans may be affected by a number of factors including: • A slowdown in the local economy where the Company’s markets are located or the national economy; • A downturn in the business sectors in which the Company’s loan customers operate; and • A rapid increase in interest rates. Liquidity Risk Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Company is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by the board of directors, with limits monitored by the Asset/Liability committee. First Defiance’s sources of liquidity include both local deposits and wholesale funding sources. Wholesale funding sources include FHLB advances, Federal Funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, brokered or other out-of-market certificate of deposit purchases, and a line of credit with a commercial bank. Also, the Company maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. Other sources of liquidity that may be available if necessary include the sale or securitization of loans, the issuance of additional collateralized borrowings beyond those currently utilized with the FHLB, the issuance of debt securities and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. -25- Table of Contents The inability of the Company to access the above listed sources of liquidity when needed could cause First Federal to be unable to meet customer needs, which could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, or regulatory capital levels. For further discussion, see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Competition Competition in the Company’s market area may reduce First Defiance’s ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits. First Defiance faces competition both in originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition is intense in the financial services industry. The Company competes in its market area by offering superior service and competitive rates and products. The type of institutions First Defiance competes with include large regional commercial banks, smaller community banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance agencies and mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of First Defiance’s competitors can offer a broader range of products and services than the Company can offer. To stay competitive in its market area, First Defiance may need to adjust the interest rates on its products to match rates of its competition, which will have a negative impact on net interest margin. The Company’s continued profitability depends on its ability to continue to effectively compete in its market areas. Operational Risks First Defiance processes a large volume of transactions on a daily basis and is exposed to numerous types of risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems. These risks include but are not limited to the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. The risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of operational deficiencies or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. The Company has established and maintains a system of internal controls that provide management with information on a timely basis and allows for the monitoring of compliance with operational standards. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risks at an appropriate, cost effective level. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. Periodically losses from operational risks may occur, including the effects of operational errors. Such losses are included in non-interest expense as incurred. While management continually monitors the system of internal control, as well as data processing systems and corporate-wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that future losses will not occur. First Defiance’s operations are also dependent on the existing infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of vital infrastructure as a result of fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failures, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic response to such activity, or other events outside of the control of management could have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on First Defiance’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition in particular. First Defiance has a business recovery plan but there are no assurances that such plan will work as intended or that it will prevent significant interruptions to operations. -26- Table of Contents Government Regulation First Defiance’s business may be adversely affected by changes in the regulatory environment or by changes in government policies as a whole. The earnings of financial institutions such as First Defiance and First Federal are affected by the policies of the regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the money supply, and the OTS, which regulates unitary thrift holding companies such as First Defiance and savings banks such as First Federal. Among the methods employed by the Federal Reserve Board to regulate the money supply are open market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, and changes in the reserve requirement against member bank deposits. These tools are utilized by the Federal Reserve in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits and they have a significant impact on interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The influence of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board is expected to have a continuing and profound effect on the operating results of commercial and savings banks. Policies, administration guidelines, and regulatory practices of the OTS and other banking regulators have a significant impact on the operations of First Federal and First Defiance. It is possible that certain of those regulations will negatively impact the Company’s operating results or financial condition. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of EESA, the U.S. Treasury established the Troubled Assets Relief Program, including the CPP, to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”), as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. -27- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 