ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following cautionary statements identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. Among the key factors that have a direct bearing on our results of operations are: 17 Risks Associated With Our Business No assurance of successful product development. Ampligen® and related products. The development of Ampligen® and our other related products is subject to a number of significant risks. Ampligen® may be found to be ineffective or to have adverse side effects, fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances, be difficult to manufacture on a commercial scale, be uneconomical to market or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary right of third parties. Our investigational products are in various stages of clinical and pre-clinical development and require further clinical studies and appropriate regulatory approval processes before any such products can be marketed. We do not know when, if ever, Ampligen® or our other products will be generally available for commercial sale for any indication. Generally, only a small percentage of potential therapeutic products are eventually approved by the FDA for commercial sale. Please see the next risk factor. Alferon N Injection®. Although Alferon N Injection® is approved for marketing in the United States for the intra-lesional treatment of refractory or recurring external genital warts in patients 18 years of age or older, to date it has not been approved for other indications. We face many of the risks discussed above, with regard to developing this product for use to treat other ailments. Our drug and related technologies are investigational and subject to regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, our operations will be significantly adversely affected. All of our drugs and associated technologies, other than Alferon N Injection®, are investigational and must receive prior regulatory approval by appropriate regulatory authorities for commercial distribution and sale and are currently legally available only through clinical trials with specified disorders. At present, Alferon N Injection® is only approved for the intra-lesional treatment of refractory or recurring external genital warts in patients 18 years of age or older. Use of Alferon N Injection® for other indications will require regulatory approval. Our products, including Ampligen®, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States (“U.S.”) and other countries, including, but not limited to, the FDA in the U.S., the Health Protection Branch (“HPB”) of Canada, and the Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (“EMEA”) in Europe. Obtaining regulatory approvals is a rigorous and lengthy process and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. In order to obtain final regulatory approval of a new drug, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the regulatory agency that the product is safe and effective for its intended uses and that we are capable of manufacturing the product to the applicable regulatory standards. We require regulatory approval in order to market Ampligen® or any other proposed product and receive product revenues or royalties. We cannot assure you that Ampligen® will ultimately be demonstrated to be safe or efficacious. While Ampligen® is authorized for use in clinical trials in the U.S. and Europe, we cannot assure you that additional clinical trial approvals will be authorized in the United States or in other countries, in a timely fashion or at all, or that we will complete these clinical trials. In addition, although Ampligen® has been authorized by the FDA for treatment use under certain conditions, including provision for cost recovery, there can be no assurance that such authorization will continue in effect. On July 7, 2008, the FDA accepted for review our New Drug Application (“NDA”) for Ampligen® to treat CFS, originally submitted in October 2007. On November 25, 2009, we received a Complete Response Letter (“CRL”) from the FDA which described specific additional recommendations related to the Ampligen® NDA. In accordance with its 2008 Complete Response procedure, the FDA reviewers determined that they could not approve the application in its present form and provided specific recommendations to address the outstanding issues. We are carefully reviewing the CRL and will seek a meeting with the FDA to discuss its recommendations. We intend to take the appropriate steps to seek approval and commercialization of Ampligen®. Most notably, the FDA stated that the two primary clinical studies submitted with the NDA did not provide credible evidence of efficacy of Ampligen® and recommended at least one additional clinical study which shows convincing effect and confirms safety in the target population. The FDA indicated that the additional study should be of sufficient size and sufficient duration (6 months) and include appropriate monitoring to rule out the generation of autoimmune disease. In addition, patients in the study should be on more than one dose regimen, including at least 300 patients on dose regimens intended for marketing. Finally, additional data including a well-controlled QT interval study of the heart’s electrical cycle and pharmacokinetic evaluations of dual dosage regiments was requested. Other items required by the FDA include certain aspects of Non-Clinical safety assessment and product Quality. In the Non-Clinical area, the FDA recommended among other things that we complete rodent carcinogenicity studies in two species. As part of the NDA submission, we had requested that these studies be waived, but the waiver has not been granted. 18 If we are unable to generate the additional data required by the FDA or if, for that or any other reason, Ampligen® or one of our other products does not receive regulatory approval in the U.S. or elsewhere, our operations most likely will be materially adversely affected. Alferon® LDO is undergoing pre-clinical testing for possible prophylaxis against influenza. While the studies to date have been encouraging, preliminary testing in the laboratory and in animal models is not necessarily predictive of successful results in clinical testing or human treatment. No assurance can be given that similar results will be observed in clinical trials. Use of Alferon® as a possible treatment of any flu requires prior regulatory approval. In October 2009, we submitted a protocol to the FDA proposing to conduct a Phase 2, well-controlled, clinical study for the prophylaxis and treatment of seasonal and pandemic influenza of more than 200 subjects. Following a teleconference with the FDA in November 2009, the FDA placed the proposed study on “Clinical Hold” because the protocol was deemed by the FDA to be deficient in design and because additional information was required to be submitted in the area of chemistry, manufacturing and controls (“CMC”). Thereafter in December 2009, we submitted additional information by Amendment with respect to both the clinical protocol design issues and the CMC items. In January 2010, the FDA acknowledged that our responses to the clinical issues were acceptable; however, the Clinical Hold was maintained in effect because the FDA believed that certain CMC issues had not yet been satisfactorily resolved. In this regard, the FDA communicated continuing questions regarding the extended storage of Alferon® LDO drug product clinical lots which had been manufactured from an active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”) of Alferon N Injection® manufactured in year 2001. Only the FDA can determine whether a drug is safe, effective or appropriate for clinical testing or treating a specific application. Therefore, no assurance can be given that the use of our existing inventory will be permitted for use in future clinical trials. We may continue to incur substantial losses and our future profitability is uncertain. We began operations in 1966 and last reported net profit from 1985 through 1987. Since 1987, we have incurred substantial operating losses, as we pursued our clinical trial effort to get our experimental drug, Ampligen®, approved. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was approximately $(210,847,000). We have not yet generated significant revenues from our products and may incur substantial and increased losses in the future. We cannot assure that we will ever achieve significant revenues from product sales or become profitable. We require, and will continue to require, the commitment of substantial resources to develop our products. We cannot assure that our product development efforts will be successfully completed or that required regulatory approvals will be obtained or that any products will be manufactured and marketed successfully, or be profitable. 19 We may require additional financing which may not be available. The development of our products will require the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time consuming research, preclinical development, and clinical trials that are necessary to bring pharmaceutical products to market. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $58,072,000 in Cash and Cash Equivalents. Given the harsh economic conditions, we continue to review every aspect of our operations for cost and spending reductions to assure our long-term financial stability while maintaining the resources necessary to achieve our primary objectives of obtaining NDA approval of Ampligen® and securing a strategic partner. If we are unable to commercialize and sell Ampligen® or Alferon® LDO and/or recommence and increase sales of Alferon N Injection® or our other products, we eventually may need to secure other sources of funding through additional equity or debt financing or other sources in order to satisfy our working capital needs and/or complete the necessary clinical trials and the regulatory approval processes on which the commercialization of our products depends. Our ability to raise additional funds from the sale of equity securities is limited. In this regard, we only have approximately 32,200,000 shares authorized but unissued and unreserved. At our annual stockholders’ meeting held on June 24, 2009, we sought approval of an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Common Stock from 200,000,000 to 350,000,000. At this meeting, there was an insufficient number of votes in favor of the proposal and voting on this proposal had been left open until September 3, 2009. We announced on September 2, 2009 that insufficient votes were obtained for passage of Proposal No. 3 contained in the proxy for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. With voting on this proposal as the sole purpose of the adjourned Stockholders' Meeting scheduled for September, 4, 2009, this meeting was cancelled. Since the approval was not obtained to increase the number of authorized shares of Common Stock, the amount of proceeds we may receive from the sale of our Common Stock is limited. There can be no assurances that we will raise adequate funds which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our products or continue our operations. Our Alferon N Injection® Commercial Sales were halted due to lack of finished goods inventory. Commercial sales of Alferon N Injection® were halted in March 2008 as the current expiration date of our finished goods inventory expired in March 2008. As a result, we have no product to sell at this time. We are undertaking a major capital improvement program, that will continue throughout 2010, to enhance our manufacturing capability to produce the purified drug concentrate used in the formulation of Alferon N Injection® at our New Brunswick facility. As a result, Alferon N Injection® could be available for commercial sales in mid to late 2011. However our agreement with a third party to formulate, package and label Alferon N Injection® has expired and we are seeking new vendors to supply this service. Also, each production lot of Alferon N Injection® is subject to FDA review and approval prior to releasing the lots to be sold. In light of these contingencies, there can be no assurances that the approved Alferon N Injection® product will be returned to production on a timely basis, if at all, or that if and when it is again made commercially available, it will return to prior sales levels. 20 Although preliminary in vitro testing indicates that Ampligen® enhances the effectiveness of different drug combinations on avian influenza, preliminary testing in the laboratory is not necessarily predictive of successful results in clinical testing or human treatment. Ampligen® is currently being tested as a vaccine adjuvant for H5N1, a pathogenic avian influenza virus (“HPAIV”) in Japan, where the preclinical data has shown activity in preventing lethal challenge with the original virus used for vaccination as well as the other related, but not identical, isolates of H5N1 virus (i.e., cross-reactivity). The clinical testing phase of Ampligen® in Japan is expected to begin in 2010 (see “Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Overview; General” in Part I above). No assurance can be given that similar results will be observed in clinical trials. Use of Ampligen® in the treatment of flu requires prior regulatory approval. Only the FDA or other corresponding regulatory agencies world-wide can determine whether a drug is safe, effective and appropriate for treating a specific application. As discussed above, obtaining regulatory approvals is a rigorous and lengthy process (see “Our drugs and related technologies are investigational and subject to regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, our operations will be significantly adversely affected” above). We may not be profitable unless we can protect our patents and/or receive approval for additional pending patents. We need to preserve and acquire enforceable patents covering the use of Ampligen® for a particular disease in order to obtain exclusive rights for the commercial sale of Ampligen® for such disease. We obtained all rights to Alferon N Injection®, and we plan to preserve and acquire enforceable patents covering its use for existing and potentially new diseases. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to preserve and obtain patent protection for our products and to obtain and preserve our trade secrets and expertise. Certain of our know-how and technology is not patentable, particularly the procedures for the manufacture of our experimental drug, Ampligen®. We also have been issued patents on the use of Ampligen® in combination with certain other drugs for the treatment of chronic Hepatitis B virus, chronic Hepatitis C virus, and a patent which affords protection on the use of Ampligen® in patients with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. We have not yet been issued any patents in the United States for the use of AmpligenÒ as a sole treatment for any of the cancers which we have sought to target. With regard to Alferon N Injection®, we have acquired from ISI its patents for natural alpha interferon produced from human peripheral blood leukocytes and its production process and we have filed a patent application for the use of Alferon® LDO in treating viral diseases including avian influenza. We cannot assure that our competitors will not seek and obtain patents regarding the use of similar products in combination with various other agents, for a particular target indication prior to our doing so. If we cannot protect our patents covering the use of our products for a particular disease, or obtain additional patents, we may not be able to successfully market our products. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of protection afforded by pharmaceutical and biotechnology patents. There can be no assurance that new patent applications relating to our products or technology will result in patents being issued or that, if issued, such patents will afford meaningful protection against competitors with similar technology. It is generally anticipated that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and intellectual property rights. Such litigation could require substantial resources from us and we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce the patent rights that we hold. No assurance can be made that our patents will provide competitive advantages for our products or will not be successfully challenged by competitors. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist or could not be filed which would have a materially adverse effect on our ability to develop or market our products or to obtain or maintain any competitive position that we may achieve with respect to our products. Our patents also may not prevent others from developing competitive products using related technology. 21 There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary licenses if we cannot enforce patent rights we may hold. In addition, the failure of third parties from whom we currently license certain proprietary information or from whom we may be required to obtain such licenses in the future, to adequately enforce their rights to such proprietary information, could adversely affect the value of such licenses to us. If we cannot enforce the patent rights we currently hold we may be required to obtain licenses from others to develop, manufacture or market our products. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We currently license certain proprietary information from third parties, some of which may have been developed with government grants under circumstances where the government maintained certain rights with respect to the proprietary information developed. No assurances can be given that such third parties will adequately enforce any rights they may have or that the rights, if any, retained by the government will not adversely affect the value of our license. There is no guarantee that our trade secrets will not be disclosed or known by our competitors. To protect our rights, we require certain employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate and enforceable remedies for any breach, or that any trade secrets of ours will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We have limited marketing and sales capability. If we are unable to obtain additional distributors and our current and future distributors do not market our products successfully, we may not generate significant revenues or become profitable. We have limited marketing and sales capability. We are dependent upon existing and, possibly future, marketing agreements and third party distribution agreements for our products in order to generate significant revenues and become profitable. As a result, any revenues received by us will be dependent in large part on the efforts of third parties, and there is no assurance that these efforts will be successful. Our commercialization strategy for Ampligen® for ME/CFS may include licensing/co-marketing agreements utilizing the resources and capacities of a strategic partner(s). We continue to seek world-wide marketing partner(s), with the goal of having a relationship in place before approval is obtained. In parallel to partnering discussions, appropriate premarketing activities will be undertaken. We intend to control manufacturing of Ampligen® on a world-wide basis. We cannot assure that our U.S. or foreign marketing strategy will be successful or that we will be able to establish future marketing or third party distribution agreements on terms acceptable to us, or that the cost of establishing these arrangements will not exceed any product revenues. Our inability to establish viable marketing and sales capabilities would most likely have a materially adverse effect on us. There are no long-term agreements with suppliers of required materials and services. If we are unable to obtain the required raw materials and/or services, we may not be able to manufacture Alferon N Injection® and/or Ampligen®. A number of essential materials are used in the production of Alferon N Injection®, including human white blood cells. We do not have, but are working towards having long-term agreements for the supply of such materials. There can be no assurance we can enter into long-term supply agreements covering essential materials on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 22 There are a limited number of manufacturers in the United States available to provide the polymers for use in manufacturing Ampligen®. At present, we do not have any agreements with third parties for the supply of any of these polymers. We have established relevant manufacturing operations within our New Brunswick, New Jersey facility for the production of Ampligen® polymers from raw materials in order to obtain polymers on a more consistent manufacturing basis. If we are unable to obtain or manufacture the required raw materials, we may be unable to manufacture Alferon N Injection® and/or Ampligen®. The costs and availability of products and materials we need for the production of Ampligen® and the commercial production of Alferon N Injection® and other products which we may commercially produce are subject to fluctuation depending on a variety of factors beyond our control, including competitive factors, changes in technology, and FDA and other governmental regulations and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such products and materials on terms acceptable to us or at all. There is no assurance that successful manufacture of a drug on a limited scale basis for investigational use will lead to a successful transition to commercial, large-scale production. Changes in methods of manufacturing, including commercial scale-up, may affect the chemical structure of Ampligen® and other RNA drugs, as well as their safety and efficacy. The transition from limited production of pre-clinical and clinical research quantities to production of commercial quantities of our products will involve distinct management and technical challenges and will require additional management and technical personnel and capital to the extent such manufacturing is not handled by third parties. There can be no assurance that our manufacturing will be successful or that any given product will be determined to be safe and effective, or capable of being manufactured under applicable quality standards, economically, and in commercial quantities, or successfully marketed. We have limited manufacturing experience. Ampligen® has been produced to date in limited quantities for use in our clinical trials, and we are dependent upon a qualified third party supplier for the manufacturing and packaging process. The failure to continue these arrangements or to achieve other such arrangements on satisfactory terms could have a material adverse affect on us. Also, to be successful, our products must be manufactured in commercial quantities in compliance with regulatory requirements and at acceptable costs. To the extent we are involved in the production process, our current facilities may not be adequate for the production of our proposed products for large-scale commercialization. We intend to utilize third party facilities if and when the need arises or, if we are unable to do so, to build or acquire commercial-scale manufacturing facilities. We will need to comply with regulatory requirements for such facilities, including those of the FDA pertaining to current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”) requirements. There can be no assurance that such facilities can be used, built, or acquired on commercially acceptable terms, or that such facilities, if used, built, or acquired, will be adequate for our long-term needs. We may not be profitable unless we can produce Ampligen® or other products in commercial quantities at costs acceptable to us. We have never produced Ampligen® or any other products in large commercial quantities. We must manufacture our products in compliance with regulatory requirements in large commercial quantities and at acceptable costs in order for us to be profitable. We intend to utilize third-party manufacturers and/or facilities if and when the need arises or, if we are unable to do so, to build or acquire commercial-scale manufacturing facilities. If we cannot manufacture commercial quantities of Ampligen® or enter into third party agreements for its manufacture at costs acceptable to us, our operations will be significantly affected. Also, each production lot of Alferon N Injection® is subject to FDA review and approval prior to releasing the lots to be sold. This review and approval process could take considerable time, which would delay our having product in inventory to sell. 23 Rapid technological change may render our products obsolete or non-competitive. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Technological competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. Most of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities than us, as well as substantial marketing, financial and managerial resources, and represent significant competition for us. There can be no assurance that developments by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive or that we will be able to keep pace with technological developments. Our products may be subject to substantial competition. Ampligen®. Competitors may be developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. Some of these potential products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing similar therapeutic effects to products being developed by us. These competing products may be more effective and less costly than our products. In addition, conventional drug therapy, surgery and other more familiar treatments may offer competition to our products. Furthermore, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than us in preclinical testing and human clinical trials of pharmaceutical products and in obtaining FDA, HPB and other regulatory approvals of products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA, HPB or other regulatory product approvals more rapidly than us. There are no drugs approved for commercial sale with respect to treating ME/CFS in the United States. The dominant competitors with drugs to treat disease indications in which we plan to address include Gilead Sciences, Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Abbott Laboratories, GlaxoSmithKline and Merck. These potential competitors are among the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world, are well known to the public and the medical community, and have substantially greater financial resources, product development, and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. Although we believe our principal advantage is the unique mechanism of action of Ampligen® on the immune system, we cannot assure that we will be able to compete. ALFERON N Injection®. Our competitors are among the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world, are well known to the public and the medical community, and have substantially greater financial resources, product development, and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. Alferon N Injection® currently competes with Schering’s injectable recombinant alpha interferon product (INTRON® A) for the treatment of genital warts. 3M Pharmaceuticals also offer competition from its immune-response modifier, Aldara®, a self-administered topical cream, for the treatment of external genital and perianal warts. In addition, Medigene AG has FDA approval for a self-administered ointment, Veregen®, which is indicated for the topical treatment of external genital and perianal warts. Alferon N Injection® also competes with surgical, chemical, and other methods of treating genital warts. We cannot assess the impact products developed by our competitors, or advances in other methods of the treatment of genital warts, will have on the commercial viability of Alferon N Injection®. If and when we obtain additional approvals of uses of this product, we expect to compete primarily on the basis of product performance. Our competitors have developed or may develop products (containing either alpha or beta interferon or other therapeutic compounds) or other treatment modalities for those uses. There can be no assurance that, if we are able to obtain regulatory approval of Alferon N Injection® for the treatment of new indications, we will be able to achieve any significant penetration into those markets. In addition, because certain competitive products are not dependent on a source of human blood cells, such products may be able to be produced in greater volume and at a lower cost than Alferon N Injection®. Currently, our wholesale price on a per unit basis of Alferon N Injection® is higher than that of the competitive recombinant alpha and beta interferon products. 24 General. Other companies may succeed in developing products earlier than we do, obtaining approvals for such products from the FDA more rapidly than we do, or developing products that are more effective than those we may develop. While we will attempt to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, there can be no assurance that research and development by others or other medical advances will not render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy we develop. Possible side effects from the use of Ampligen® or Alferon N Injection® could adversely affect potential revenues and physician/patient acceptability of our product. Ampligen®. We believe that Ampligen® has been generally well tolerated with a low incidence of clinical toxicity, particularly given the severely debilitating or life threatening diseases that have been treated. A mild flushing reaction has been observed in approximately 15-20% of patients treated in our various studies. This reaction is occasionally accompanied by a rapid heart beat, a tightness of the chest, urticaria (swelling of the skin), anxiety, shortness of breath, subjective reports of “feeling hot”, sweating and nausea. The reaction is usually infusion-rate related and can generally be controlled by reducing the rate of infusion. Other adverse side effects include liver enzyme level elevations, diarrhea, itching, asthma, low blood pressure, photophobia, rash, transient visual disturbances, slow or irregular heart rate, decreases in platelets and white blood cell counts, anemia, dizziness, confusion, elevation of kidney function tests, occasional temporary hair loss and various flu-like symptoms, including fever, chills, fatigue, muscular aches, joint pains, headaches, nausea and vomiting. These flu-like side effects typically subside within several months. One or more of the potential side effects might deter usage of Ampligen® in certain clinical situations and therefore, could adversely affect potential revenues and physician/patient acceptability of our product. Alferon N Injection®. At present, Alferon N Injection® is only approved for the intra-lesional (within the lesion) treatment of refractory or recurring external genital warts in adults. In clinical trials conducted for the treatment of genital warts with Alferon N Injection®, patients did not experience serious side effects; however, there can be no assurance that unexpected or unacceptable side effects will not be found in the future for this use or other potential uses of Alferon N Injection® which could threaten or limit such product’s usefulness. We may be subject to product liability claims from the use of Ampligen®, Alferon N Injection®, or other of our products which could negatively affect our future operations. We have discontinued product liability insurance. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of Ampligen® or other of our products results in adverse effects. This liability might result from claims made directly by patients, hospitals, clinics or other consumers, or by pharmaceutical companies or others manufacturing these products on our behalf. Our future operations may be negatively affected from the litigation costs, settlement expenses and lost product sales inherent to these claims. While we will continue to attempt to take appropriate precautions, we cannot assure that we will avoid significant product liability exposure. 25 On November 28, 2008, we suspended product liability insurance for Alferon N Injection® and Ampligen®. We now require third parties to indemnify us in conjunction with all overseas emergency sales of Ampligen® and Alferon® LDO. We concluded that years of successfully addressing the limited number of product liability claims filed against Ampligen® and Alferon® LDO, combined with the informed consent and other patient waivers completed as an element of clinical trials, and the lack of any commercial sales since April 2008, that temporarily discontinuing the liability insurance was an acceptable risk until we receive regulatory clearance for Ampligen® or Alferon® LDO or until Alferon N Injection® again becomes available. Currently, without product liability coverage for Ampligen®, Alferon N Injection® and Alferon® LDO, a claim against the products could have a materially adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The loss of services of key personnel including Dr. William A. Carter could hurt our chances for success. Our success is dependent on the continued efforts of our staff, especially certain doctors and researchers along with the continued efforts of Dr. William A. Carter because of his position as a pioneer in the field of nucleic acid drugs, his being the co-inventor of Ampligen®, and his knowledge of our overall activities, including patents and clinical trials. The loss of the services of Dr. Carter or other personnel key to our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and chances for success. As a cash conservation measure, we have elected to discontinue the Key Man life insurance on the life of Dr. Carter. An employment agreement continues to exist with Dr. Carter that, as amended, runs until December 31, 2010. However, Dr. Carter has the right to terminate his employment upon not less than 30 days prior written notice. The loss of Dr. Carter or other key personnel or the failure to recruit additional personnel as needed could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to achieve our objectives. Uncertainty of health care reimbursement for our products. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatment will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, and from time to time legislation is proposed, which, if adopted, could further restrict the prices charged by and/or amounts reimbursable to manufacturers of pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict what, if any, legislation will ultimately be adopted or the impact of such legislation on us. There can be no assurance that third party insurance companies will allow us to charge and receive payments for products sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. There are risks of liabilities associated with handling and disposing of hazardous materials. Our business involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, carcinogenic chemicals, flammable solvents and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident or the failure to comply with applicable regulations, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could be significant. We do not maintain insurance coverage against such liabilities. A Number of Purported Class Action Lawsuits Have Been Filed Against Us and We May Be Subject to Civil Liabilities. A number of purported class action lawsuits have been filed against us alleging securities fraud. The complaints seek monetary damages, costs, attorneys’ fees, and other equitable and injunctive relief. Securities class action suits and derivative suits are often brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Defending against these suits, even if meritless, can result in substantial costs to us and could divert the attention of our management. 26 The existence of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access the capital markets to raise additional funds. While management believes that the lawsuits are without merit, we cannot predict or determine the timing or final outcomes of the lawsuits and are unable to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes. Adverse results in some or all of these legal proceedings could be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Risks Associated With an Investment in Our Common Stock The market price of our stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to be volatile. This is especially true given the current significant instability in the financial markets. In addition to general economic, political and market conditions, the price and trading volume of our stock could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: · announcements of the results of clinical trials by us or our competitors; · announcement of legal actions against us and/or settlements or verdicts adverse to us; · adverse reactions to products; · governmental approvals, delays in expected governmental approvals or withdrawals of any prior governmental approvals or public or regulatory agency comments regarding the safety or effectiveness of our products, or the adequacy of the procedures, facilities or controls employed in the manufacture of our products; · changes in U.S. or foreign regulatory policy during the period of product development; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights, including any third party challenges of our intellectual property rights; · announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; · announcements of new products or new contracts by us or our competitors; · actual or anticipated variations in our operating results due to the level of development expenses and other factors; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our earnings meet or exceed the estimates; · conditions and trends in the pharmaceutical and other industries; · new accounting standards; · overall investment market fluctuation; and · occurrence of any of the risks described in these "Risk Factors". Our common stock is listed for quotation on the NYSE Amex. For the 12 month period ended December 31, 2009, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from $0.32 to $3.75 per share. We expect the price of our common stock to remain volatile. The average daily trading volume of our common stock varies significantly. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of the securities of companies in our industry, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies in our industry. In this regard, please see “A Number of Purported Class Action Lawsuits Have Been Filed Against Us and We May Be Subject to Civil Liabilities” above. 27 Our stock price may be adversely affected if a significant amount of shares are sold in the public market. In May 2009 we issued an aggregate of 25,543,339 shares and warrants to purchase an additional 14,708,687 shares under a universal shelf registration statement. 4,895,000 of these warrants have been exercised as of December 31, 2009. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate selling 9,813,687 shares pursuant to the conversion of remaining warrants. In addition to the foregoing, we registered with the SEC on September 29, 2009, 1,038,527 shares issuable upon exercise of certain other warrants. To the extent the exercise price of our outstanding warrants is less than the market price of the common stock, the holders of the warrants are likely to exercise them and sell the underlying shares of common stock and to the extent that the exercise price of certain of these warrants are adjusted pursuant to anti-dilution protection, the warrants could be exercisable or convertible for even more shares of common stock. We also may issue shares to be used to meet our capital requirements or use shares to compensate employees, consultants and/or directors. In this regard we have registered $150,000,000 of securities for public sale pursuant to a universal shelf registration, none of which has been designated or issued. We are unable to estimate the amount, timing or nature of future sales of outstanding common stock or instruments convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including our sale of securities pursuant to the universal shelf registration statement, could cause the market price for our common stock to decrease. Furthermore, a decline in the price of our common stock would likely impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law could defer a change of our management which could discourage or delay offers to acquire us. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or for our stockholders to remove existing management, and might discourage a third party from offering to acquire us, even if a change in control or in Management would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our Certificate of Incorporation allows us to issue shares of preferred stock without any vote or further action by our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In this regard, in November 2002, we adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan (“Rights Plan”) and, under the Rights Plan, our Board of Directors declared a dividend distribution of one Right for each outstanding share of Common Stock to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 29, 2002. Each Right initially entitles holders to buy one-hundredth unit of preferred stock for $30.00. The Rights generally are not transferable apart from the common stock and will not be exercisable unless and until a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock. However, for Dr. Carter, our Chief Executive Officer, who already beneficially owns 5.4% of our common stock, the Rights Plan’s threshold will be 20%, instead of 15%. The Rights Plan will expire on November 19, 2012, and may be redeemed prior thereto at $.01 per Right under certain circumstances. 28 Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements Because the risk factors referred to above could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict which will arise. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Our research in clinical efforts may continue for the next several years and we may continue to incur losses due to clinical costs incurred in the development of Ampligen® for commercial application. Possible losses may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of differences in the timing of significant expenses incurred and receipt of licensing fees and/or cost recovery treatment revenue. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. ITEM 