Item 1A. Risk Factors Interest Rate Risk Our earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of the spread between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including: o The rate of inflation; o Economic conditions; o Federal monetary policies; o Stability of domestic and foreign markets. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of prepayments on loans as well as the payments received on mortgage backed securities, requiring the reinvestment at lower rates than the loans or securities were paying. First Federal Bank originates a significant amount of residential mortgage loans for sale and for our portfolio. The origination of residential mortgage loans is highly dependent on the local real estate market and the level of interest rates. Increasing interest rates tend to reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently fee income, which we report as mortgage banking income. Conversely, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the -20- value of mortgage servicing rights on the loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may be required to write down the value of our mortgage servicing rights faster than anticipated, which will increase our expense and lower our earnings. Credit Risk Our earnings and financial condition may be adversely affected if we fail to adequately manage our credit risk. Our primary business is the origination and underwriting of loans. This business requires us to take "credit risk" which is the risk of losing principal and interest income because borrowers fail to repay their loans. The ability of borrowers to repay their loans and the value of collateral securing such loans may be affected by a number of factors including: o A slowdown in the local economy of our market area or the national economy; o A downturn in the business sector in which our loan customer operates; o A rapid increase in interest rates. Economy We operate our banking and insurance business units within the geographic area comprised of the northwest corner of the state of Ohio and adjacent counties in Indiana and Michigan. Weaknesses in this geographic market area could be caused by such factors as an increase in the unemployment rate, a decrease in real estate values, or significant increases in interest rates. Any such weakness could have a negative impact on our earnings and financial condition because: o Demand for our products and services may go down; o Borrowers may be unable to make payments on their loans; o The value of collateral securing loans may decline; o The overall quality of the loan portfolio may decline. Competition Competition in our market area may reduce our ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits. We face competition both in originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition is intense in the financial services industry. We compete in our market area by offering superior service and competitive rates and products. The type of institutions we compete with include large regional commercial banks, smaller community banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance agencies and mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of our competitors can offer a broader range of products and services than we offer. To stay competitive in our market area, we may need to adjust the interest rates on our products to match rates of our competition, which will have a negative impact on our net interest margin. Our continued profitability depends on our ability to continue to effectively compete in our market areas. -21- Government Regulation Our business may be adversely affected by changes in the regulatory environment or by changes in government policies as a whole. The earnings of financial institutions such as First Defiance and First Federal are affected by the policies of the regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the money supply, and the Office of Thrift Supervision, which regulates unitary thrift holding companies such as First Defiance and savings banks such as First Federal. Among the methods employed by the Federal Reserve Board are open market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, and changes in the reserve requirement against member bank deposits. These tools are utilized by the Federal Reserve in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits and they have a significant impact on interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The influence of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board are expected to have a continuing and profound effect on the operating results of commercial and savings banks. Policies, administration guidelines, and regulatory practices of the Office of Thrift Supervision and other banking regulators have a significant impact on the operations of First Federal and First Defiance. It is possible that certain of those regulations will negatively impact the Company's operating results or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -22- 