RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, investors in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below. Our financial condition or results of operations, or the trading prices of our securities, could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion contains a number of forward-looking statements. Please refer to the “Forward-Looking Statements” discussion at the front of this Annual Report for cautionary information. An economic downturn, a substantial slowdown in economic growth or deterioration in consumer spending could adversely affect our customers’ purchases of our products and services in each of our operating segments, which could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our business is influenced by general economic conditions in Germany, Europe and the United States. If economic growth in the countries in which we conduct business deteriorates in 2008, this could have an adverse effect on the level of demand by our individual customers for our products and services and the willingness of our business customers to invest in information and communications technology (ICT). This could, in turn, jeopardize the attainment of our growth targets, such as those relating to multimedia services in mobile telecommunications, or those relating to broadband products and services based on digital subscriber line (DSL) technology. Because we operate in heavily regulated business environments, decisions that regulatory authorities impose on us restrict flexibility in managing our business and may force us to offer services to competitors, or reduce the prices we charge for our products and services, either of which could have a material negative impact on our revenues, profits and market shares. Unlike many of our competitors, we are subject to strict regulation in many market segments in Germany and Central and Eastern Europe, particularly with respect to the fixed-line network business of our Broadband/Fixed Network operating segment. Government agencies regularly intervene in the offerings and in the pricing of our fixed-line products and services. Regulation can impede our ability to grow and to react to the initiatives of competitors and technological change. At the European Union level, the framework for telecommunications regulation is currently under review. The European Commission has proposed changes that would not lead to a significant reduction of regulation. On the contrary, as a result of this review by the European Commission, the scope of regulation may be expanded by the European Union or national regulatory authorities, either of which could have negative effects on our business and pricing flexibility and, as a result, could affect our ability to generate revenue and profit. For example, the European Commission has proposed, under certain conditions, to regulate separately network operations and services provided through a network. The European Parliament and the Council of Ministers are expected to discuss these proposals in 2008. Access and price regulation applies primarily to telecommunications services that are considered to involve an operator with “significant market power.” We have been designated an operator with significant market power in most fixed-line markets in which we operate, including in Germany, Hungary, Slovakia and Croatia. The German telecommunications regulatory framework implemented by the Federal Network Agency (Bundesnetzagentur) has an especially significant impact on our business. So far, we have been exempted from regulation on the basis of a loss of significant market power in markets of relatively minor importance only, such as the market for foreign long-distance calls in fixed-line networks. Additionally, since we are offering mobile and fixed-line triple-play services (high-speed Internet access, communications services and entertainment offerings), media regulation may become increasingly important to our business. This regulation might restrict our ability to provide media services, including the delivery of content, and could also result in additional costs for technical implementation measures needed to comply with increased regulation. 7 Table of Contents Mobile Communications Our mobile telecommunications operations, which are conducted through our operating segments Mobile Communications Europe and Mobile Communications USA, are supervised by regulatory authorities in the countries in which we operate. We expect a tightening of regulatory control in the area of mobile telecommunications, with a probable negative effect on pricing and revenues, including as a result of further reductions in international roaming charges for the wholesale and retail voice market, data and SMS roaming charges, call termination charges and also possible access regulation in some markets. In Europe, national regulatory authorities and various E.U. bodies have the power to regulate based on market investigations or reviews. With respect to international roaming charges for the wholesale and retail voice market, a European Union-wide regulation, valid until June 2010, is presently in place. However, in late 2008, the European Commission is expected to report on its evaluation of the present regulation and will make recommendations for modifications it deems appropriate. Mobile call termination charges are also subject to regulatory measures in T-Mobile’s markets that can have a negative effect on revenues. Various reviews of call termination rates and court proceedings relating to regulatory measures are pending in several of T-Mobile’s markets. Recently, the European Commission launched an inquiry into the data and SMS roaming market. Should the European Commission determine that prices for data and SMS roaming are too high, a regulation with subsequent price reductions may be imposed. Our telecommunications systems and operations in the United States are regulated primarily by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and by various other federal, state and local governmental bodies. These governmental agencies may also exercise jurisdiction over mobile telecommunications operators. Some U.S. states have taken actions to regulate various aspects of wireless operations including customer billing, termination of service arrangements and advertising. Any of those agencies could adopt regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we may be subject to sanctions, which may have an adverse effect on our mobile telecommunications business in the United States. For further information regarding the matters discussed above and other aspects of the regulatory environments to which our businesses are subject, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation” and “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Broadband/Fixed Network We believe that, for the foreseeable future, the Federal Network Agency is likely to consider us as a provider with significant market power in various German markets for public voice telephony services in the fixed-line network and in other markets, including most of those in which we held monopoly rights in the past. As a result, we expect that the strict regulatory provisions of the Telecommunications Act relating to providers with significant market power will continue to be applied to our activities in those markets. Considering that in many markets our competitors are unlikely to gain significant market power in the near future, we expect that we will have to compete in important markets with providers not subject to these regulatory obligations. Therefore, these competitors may be expected to have more flexibility than we have in terms of the types of services offered and customers served, pricing and the granting of network access. The Federal Network Agency has not shown any sign that it will refrain from regulating previously unregulated or emerging markets. On the contrary, the Federal Network Agency appears prepared to extend regulation into previously unregulated markets. For example, we are required to offer an Internet Protocol (IP) Bitstream Access product in the wholesale-market, which is regulated in terms of price, possibly below the current prices for Resale DSL. Additionally, we are required to offer unbundled broadband access to competitors by April 2008 or sooner if Broadband/Fixed Network introduces its own all IP-product. Unbundled broadband access for our competitors would expand competition in the access business, currently focused on metropolitan areas, to all regions in Germany. These regulatory measures could have a material adverse effect on our market shares, revenues and profits. 8 Table of Contents Regulatory authorities may choose to classify our entry into new markets as extensions of our existing services and subject such new businesses to regulation instead of considering it an unregulated new product offering. For example, our triple-play offerings using DSL technology over our new 50 Mbit/s high-speed fiber-optic network (VDSL) may be viewed by the Federal Network Agency as an extension of our prior double-play and triple-play service offerings, which were based on ADSL2+ technology, and not as a new market. This could subject our VDSL technology-based product offerings to extensive regulation. According to a regulatory order dated June 29, 2007, we must grant access to competitors to ducts or, alternatively, to dark fiber cable. The replication of VDSL products in particular by competitors using their own infrastructures is hence being made easier at our expense. Some network operators have expressed the intention to establish VDSL access through our ducts. This would increase the competitive pressure on our “Entertain” products and other services, which could have a negative impact on our market shares, revenues and profits. Our fixed-line subsidiaries in Central and Eastern Europe are subject to regulatory provisions and risks that are similar to those affecting our fixed-line operations in Germany. The business impact of increased regulation on our subsidiaries in Central and Eastern Europe will depend on the way in which national regulatory authorities use their powers, and the extent to which our competitors take advantage of regulatory decisions designed to foster increased competition. Further market analysis procedures under the E.U. regulatory framework continue to be carried out in Hungary and Slovakia throughout 2008, which could eventually lead to reductions in the prices we may charge to customers for wholesale and retail services. These developments could also contribute to a loss of our market shares in these countries. Our Central and Eastern European subsidiaries might also be required to adjust their product offerings on the wholesale and retail levels in furtherance of competition in the fixed-line network. This could have a material adverse effect on their market shares, revenues and profits. For further information regarding the matters discussed above and other aspects of the regulatory environments to which our businesses are subject, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation” and “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We face intense competition in all areas of our business, which could lead to reduced prices for our products and services and a decrease in market share in certain service areas, thereby having an adverse effect on our revenues and net profit. Mobile Communications Each of T-Mobile USA’s three main national competitors in the United States—AT&T, Verizon Wireless and Sprint/Nextel—is significantly larger than T-Mobile USA. Their scale could afford them significant structural and competitive advantages in this market. This situation presents a long-term challenge to T-Mobile USA to effectively compete in terms of pricing, products, coverage and the introduction of new technologies and services. Intense competition from various regional and other small national operators also exists in T-Mobile USA’s markets. Since T-Mobile USA is a significant contributor to our overall revenues and customer growth, a slowdown or decline in the business of T-Mobile USA could have a material adverse effect on the attainment of the growth targets and profitability of our Group as a whole. Competition in the European mobile telecommunications markets has increased and can be expected to increase further in the future. Growing competition results, in part, from the market entry of low cost carriers, such as mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs), which use the networks of other operators at volume discounts, and from market consolidation. If prices for mobile telecommunications services decline more than anticipated and this decline is not compensated for by higher usage, T-Mobile may not achieve its objectives. In addition, mobile network operators’ expansion of product offerings into the fixed-line sector may result in a competitive disadvantage for T-Mobile in countries in which T-Mobile offers only mobile communications services. Moreover, technologies such as W-LAN, DSL, WiMax and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), which can be used with existing hardware and platforms, could result in the diversion of voice and data traffic from T-Mobile’s network, which could lead to significant price and revenue reductions. 9 Table of Contents As European markets have become increasingly saturated, the focus of competition has been shifting from customer acquisition to customer retention, and increasing the quality and value of existing customers. Accordingly, if we are unable to offer increased quality and better value to our customers, our market share and revenues may not grow as we have anticipated in our growth plans. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Mobile Communications.” Broadband/Fixed Network In Germany, and to a lesser extent in Central and Eastern Europe, fixed-line network voice telephony service revenues and prices have continued to decline, primarily due to intense competition and adverse decisions imposed by the national regulation authorities, and also due to customers’ ongoing substitution of mobile telecommunications and VoIP services for fixed-line usage. Due to intense competition from mobile operators, fixed-line carriers and cable operators, we continued to lose market share in 2007. We expect a further increase in competition due to a change in mobile operators’ focus from pure mobile services towards fixed-line offerings and cable operators’ product bundles for telephone and broadband access lines, which are increasingly offered in more regions throughout Germany as well as in Central and Eastern Europe. Furthermore, regulatory actions by the Federal Network Agency and the increasing quality and acceptance of VoIP services will increase pressure on our market shares, revenues and margins. Additional local and regional network operators are expanding their presence to include other major cities and regions. In the future, we could face even fiercer competition and lose further market share if our competitors were to combine their businesses. Existing mobile substitution effects are intensified as a result of the proliferation of MVNOs. Reduced prices for mobile telecommunications services (e.g., on the basis of lower flat rates without call-based charges and regulatory decisions regarding mobile telephony termination rates) could increase pricing pressure on our fixed-line services. Furthermore, mobile operators are increasingly engaging in reselling DSL product bundles provided by other fixed-line operators, and this continues to have an adverse effect on our fixed-line network revenues. The German and European markets for Internet access and portal services, especially within the broadband market, have been, and will continue to be, highly competitive. Prices for broadband flat rates have been steadily declining. Broadband/Fixed Network’s future competitive position will be affected by pricing, network speed and reliability, services offered, customer support and its ability to be technologically adept and innovative. The regulatory environment can also exert a significant influence on the level of competition. Wholesale DSL competitors are already offering broadband/VoIP bundles without a Deutsche Telekom fixed-line connection. Thus, we expect that our competitors will continue to pursue new broadband customers aggressively. In the market for portal services and content, competition is also intense due to low barriers to entry. Part of the challenge for our Broadband/Fixed Network operating segment will be to improve its reputation for customer service while implementing cost-saving measures. If we do not continue to improve our customer service sustainably, there is a risk that we might not stop our continuing loss of customers. Each of these developments is expected to continue to erode our market shares and to decrease our revenues and profit margins. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Broadband/Fixed Network” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” Business Customers Our Business Customers operating segment, operated through T-Systems Business Services GmbH and T-Systems Enterprise Services GmbH (collectively, “T-Systems”), is a provider of solutions covering the entire ICT value chain. It is subject to risks associated with the general and regional economies of its customers and the 10 Table of Contents willingness and ability of its customers to invest in information and communications technology services and products. The ICT market is shaped by long sales cycles, severe competition and declining prices. The result is downward pressure on revenues and margins. The international growth potential of T-Systems may be constrained by its limited brand recognition in some national markets, at least compared to that of competitors who may be more established there, particularly as this relates to maintaining and increasing business with multinational companies outside of Germany. In addition, T-Systems has employed some restructuring and enhancement initiatives to improve the efficiency and integration of its ITC services. Therefore, we are in negotiations with some international IT providers for international partnerships with T-Systems or parts of T-Systems. We can provide no assurance that these negotiations will result in any transactions. If the various initiatives introduced by T-Systems are not successful, T-Systems may lose market share to its competitors or incur loss. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Business Customers.” We may realize neither the expected level of demand for our products and services, nor the expected level or timing of revenues generated by those products and services, as a result of lack of market acceptance, technological change or delays from suppliers, which could adversely affect our cash flows. There is a risk that we will not succeed in making customers sufficiently aware of existing and future value-added services or in creating customer acceptance of these services at the prices we would want to charge. There is also a risk that we will not identify trends correctly, or that we will not be able to bring new services to market as quickly or price-competitively as our competitors. These risks exist, in particular, with respect to our anticipated future growth drivers in the mobile telecommunications area (e.g., mobile data services provided via Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS or “3G”) or other advanced technologies) and in the fixed-line telecommunications area (e.g., triple-play services). Some of our investments to develop future products and services may involve substantial cash outlays with no certainty of market acceptance or regulatory non-interference. Accordingly, there is a risk that the return on our investments, in particular in UMTS licenses and network infrastructure may be negatively affected, which could result in significant write-downs of the value of our UMTS or other licenses or other network-related investments. In September 2007, we re-launched our triple-play offering under the product name “Entertain” for our customers in Germany with an enlarged content offering and new features. “Triple-play” refers to the interaction between high-speed Internet access, communications services and entertainment offerings. The market acceptance for these new products and services could be negatively affected by a reduced willingness to pay for additional channels. Since the product is very complex with regard to content and technology, it may prove hard to convey its benefits to our customers via our traditional sales channels. Furthermore, potential software and IT problems could have a negative impact on its market success. In addition, the bulk of German apartment buildings have been equipped with low-priced cable TV facilities for a long time, which could lessen the propensity to switch to a new technology. Each of these factors could also have an adverse effect on our pricing models, revenues and profit margins. Further, as a result of rapid technological progress, and the trend towards technological convergence, there is a danger that new and established information and telecommunications technologies or products may not only fail to complement one another, but in some cases may even substitute for one another. An example of this is VoIP, a technology that is already established in the business customer market. VoIP has now reached the consumer market as well and, as a technology that competes directly with traditional fixed-line telephony services, has the potential to reduce further our market share and revenues in our fixed-line business. The introduction of mobile handsets with VoIP functionality may also adversely affect our pricing structures and market share in our mobile voice telephony business. If we do not appropriately anticipate the demand for new technologies, and adapt our strategies and cost structures accordingly, we may be unable to compete effectively, with the result that our business activities, financial condition and results may suffer. 11 Table of Contents For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business.” Failure to achieve our planned reduction and restructuring of personnel could negatively affect our financial objectives and profitability. We announced an extensive staff restructuring program for our operations in Germany in November 2005, under which a total of approximately 32,000 employees are scheduled to leave the Group by the end of 2008. Some of these employees have already left us as part of the sale of Vivento business lines and others through voluntary early retirement and other voluntary measures. By the end of 2007, the Group had already realized about 26,500 of these planned staff reductions. However, the successful realization of our ongoing staff reduction program depends on a range of factors that are beyond our control, such as the continued successful sale of our Vivento operating businesses, general developments in the labor market and the demand for our retrained labor force and the level of acceptance of the various severance offers and other voluntary reduction measures (e.g., early retirement programs). If the planned staff reduction targets are not achieved, this would have a negative effect on our operating expenses and profitability. In 2007, approximately 1,200 employees of Vivento Customer Services GmbH were transferred to walter services ComCare GmbH & Co. KG/walter services Holding GmbH and several regional units of arvato AG in connection with the transfer of certain Vivento call center operations. Further sales of Vivento’s business lines are planned for 2008 and are dependent on, among other things, finding suitable buyers and achieving certain financial objectives. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Group Headquarters and Shared Services” and “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations—Other Employees.” Failure to reach the goals set forth for our recently established call center, technical customer service and technical infrastructure units in Germany (Telekom Service) may jeopardize our aspirations of improved customer service quality and further cost-cutting. On June 25, 2007, certain call center units, technical customer service units and the operational units of our technical infrastructure were transferred into three newly established companies within our Group. This transfer involved about 50,000 employees and was designed to focus on quality of service under conditions that are in line with market expectations and to secure our competitiveness in the German market. The success of our “Telekom Service” initiative largely depends on the rapid transformation of business processes, effective reporting lines and, despite the agreed upon salary reductions, enhanced employee productivity. Failure to successfully adapt to the new organizational requirements could make us fall short of our customer service and cost efficiency goals, which could impair our ability to stem loss of market share and improve employee productivity. As a result of dispositions of certain non-core businesses in Germany, there is an increased risk of return of civil servants transferred out of the Group, which could have a negative impact on our staff and cost reduction objectives. Our employees who have civil servant status can, based on German civil service law, only be completely transferred to the buyer of a business from us in exceptional cases. Therefore, as a general matter, such transferred civil servants are placed on leave of absence while employed with the transferred business unit. Accordingly, in the event of termination of employment with the transferred business unit, there is a risk that such civil servants will return to the Deutsche Telekom Group. This risk of return can be reduced by an agreement on compensation payments, but it cannot be completely eliminated. As of December 31, 2007, the total number of civil servants that can avail themselves of this right of return to the Deutsche Telekom Group was approximately 1,400. 12 Table of Contents For further information regarding civil servants and general human resources related matters, see “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations.” Alleged health risks of wireless communications devices have led to litigation affecting T-Mobile, and could lead to decreased wireless communications usage or increased difficulty in obtaining sites for base stations and, thus, adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our wireless services business. Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless mobile devices and cell sites may raise various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Research and studies are ongoing. The World Health Organization has declared that, on the basis of current scientific knowledge, there are no known adverse effects on health below the international threshold standards, nor is it expecting any serious dangers to arise in the future, although it does recommend continued research due to the ongoing scientific uncertainty. We cannot provide assurance that research in the future will not establish links between radio frequency emissions and health risks. Whether or not such research or studies conclude there is a link between radio frequency emissions and health, popular concerns about radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of wireless devices and may result in significant restrictions on the location and operation of T-Mobile’s cell sites and the usage of T-Home’s wireless devices, telephones or products using W-LAN technology. Such restrictions on use could have material adverse effects on our results of operations. T-Mobile USA is subject to current and potential litigation relating to these health concerns. Several amended class action lawsuits have been filed in the United States against T-Mobile USA and several other wireless service operators and wireless telephone manufacturers, asserting products liability, breach of warranty and other claims relating to radio frequency transmissions to and from wireless mobile devices. The complaints seek substantial monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. The defense of these lawsuits may divert management’s attention, and T-Mobile USA may be required to pay significant awards or settlements and incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. We do not know whether legislators, regulators or private litigants will refrain from taking other actions adverse to us, based on the purported health-related risks associated with radio frequency emissions. Any such litigation, legislation or adverse actions may result in additional costs and loss of revenues in our mobile communications businesses. For more information, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We continuously engage in large-scale programs to reshape our IT infrastructure to adapt to changing customer needs and organizational requirements. Failure to effectively plan and monitor these activities could lead to misallocations of resources and impaired processes with negative consequences for our operations. In May 2007, we launched the “IT 2010” initiative as a comprehensive Group plan for all IT activities. This program has been established to implement our Group IT strategy and is supervised by the Chief Information Officer (CIO) board. The initiative comprises several cross-company workstreams and additional intra-company initiatives. The overall focus of the program is oriented towards “Customer Value,” “Operational Excellence” and “Cost Reduction.” By 2010, cost savings of up to EUR 1 billion, which are expected to be realized through reduced IT budgets, unified workplace systems and minimized manual interfaces, are anticipated. In accordance with the needs of our customers, the program is geared towards boosting the development of IP-based telecommunications products and services. Due to the enormous complexity of the implementation of this IT strategy, malfunctions, connectivity issues, implementation delays, and other unforeseen problems, could result in costly process impairments and remediation, and possible extended down-times of IT processes, and therefore frustrate the attainment of our cost-savings goals. 13 Table of Contents One of our most important IT programs deals with the long-term development and implementation of a comprehensive IP platform that will support both fixed-line and mobile telephony services. This means that the traditional PSTN platform will be completely replaced by an IP-based system. Upon implementing this joint IP platform, we will be subject to risks inherent in all IT systems connected to the Internet, such as hacker attacks, “spam calls” and other disruptions. These risks could lead to a temporary interruption of our IT resources and, as a result, impair the performance of our technical infrastructure. System failures due to natural or man-made disruptions could result in reduced user traffic and reduced revenues and could harm our reputation and results. Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure for fixed-line network services and mobile telecommunications services) may be damaged or disrupted by fire, lightning, flooding and other calamities, technology failures, human error, terrorist attacks, hacker attacks and malicious actions, and other similar events. We attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a large number of measures, including backup systems and protective systems such as firewalls, virus scanners, and building security. We cannot, however, be certain that these measures will be effective under all circumstances and that disruptions or damages will not occur. Damage or disruption to our infrastructure may result in reduced user traffic and revenues, increased costs, and damage to our reputation. Shortcomings in our supply and procurement process could negatively affect our product portfolio, revenues and profits. As a fully integrated ICT service provider, we cooperate with a wide range of different suppliers for technical components and assemblies, as well as for software and other goods and information important to the conduct of our business. Although we do not believe that we are materially dependent on any single supplier, our contractors may want to extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages or changing business and product strategies. If our commercial partners fail to deliver products and services in a timely and qualitative manner, the ensuing disruptions in our chain of supply could negatively affect our product portfolio, cost structure, revenues and profits. We take a variety of measures to shelter ourselves from these risks, but we cannot be sure that these measures will be effective under all circumstances. We are continuously involved in disputes and litigation with regulators, competitors and other parties. The ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings is generally uncertain. When finally concluded, they may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous risks relating to legal and regulatory proceedings, in which we are currently a party or which could develop in the future. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently unpredictable. Legal or regulatory proceedings in which we are or come to be involved (or settlements thereof) may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For information concerning some of the litigation in which we are involved, including with respect to Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa Sp. z o.o. (“PTC”) and Toll Collect, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” For information concerning our regulatory environment, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” Future sales of our shares by the Federal Republic or KfW Bankengruppe (“KfW”) may adversely affect the trading prices of our shares and ADSs. The Federal Republic (which owns, together with KfW, approximately 31.7% of our outstanding shares) has announced its intention to continue its privatization policy. Accordingly, we cannot predict if and when the Federal Republic will further reduce its holdings of its equity interest in Deutsche Telekom AG. The reduction in the Federal Republic’s direct or indirect holdings may involve KfW. For shareholders, there is a danger that the market offering of a significant volume of our shares by either the Federal Republic or KfW, or speculation to this effect on the markets, could have a negative impact on the price of our shares and ADSs. 14 Table of Contents In April 2006, the Blackstone Group purchased 191.7 million of our shares from KfW. KfW agreed with Blackstone to a one year lock-up with respect to further sales of KfW’s Deutsche Telekom shares. In return, Blackstone agreed with KfW to a two-year lock-up of its Deutsche Telekom shares. As the Blackstone lock-up period ends in April 2008, market speculation regarding a significant sale of shares currently held by Blackstone could have a negative impact on the price of our shares. We are not a party to these agreements and have no right to enforce or waive the lock-up restrictions. Certain of KfW’s debt instruments are exchangeable into shares of Deutsche Telekom AG, which, upon exchange, could also have a negative impact on the price of our shares. KfW issued a class of exchangeable bonds in 2003 that matures on August 8, 2008. Exchangeable bonds are debt securities that the holder may exchange for shares in another company during a predefined period and at a predefined price. When the exchange price is exceeded and when the holder exercises the exchange right, KfW will be obligated to exchange the bonds offered for Deutsche Telekom AG shares. When the exchangeable bonds mature on August 8, 2008, KfW has the right to settle them in Deutsche Telekom AG shares. These exchangeable bonds in the aggregate amount of EUR 5 billion have a share exchange price of EUR 17.526 per ordinary share. Accordingly, approximately 285.3 million shares may be delivered by KfW in exchange for the outstanding bonds maturing in August 2008. The delivery to debtholders by KfW of a significant amount of our shares could have a negative impact on the market price of our shares. Unexpected difficulties related to the integration of SunCom Wireless Holdings and Orange Nederland or other acquired entities could adversely affect our business and profits. On September 16, 2007, T-Mobile USA and SunCom Wireless Holdings, Inc. (“SunCom”) announced that they had entered into a definitive merger agreement for the acquisition by T-Mobile USA of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of SunCom, for an aggregate of approximately USD 1.6 billion (EUR 1.1 billion). With the acquisition of SunCom, completed on February 22, 2008, we hope to realize significant cost synergies, reduce roaming expenses and improve our market presence. On October 1, 2007, T-Mobile Netherlands had concluded a transaction with France Télécom regarding the acquisition of the Dutch mobile operator, Orange Nederland, for a purchase price of EUR 1.3 billion. By combining these businesses, we expect to realize significant synergies with regard to marketing expenses and network infrastructure. Any major problem in integrating networks, operations, product offerings, personnel, standards and procedures of these or other acquired companies may have material adverse effects on our results of operations and our ability to improve our market position as anticipated. Exchange-rate, interest-rate and rating risks have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our revenue and cost development. We are exposed to currency risks related to our international business activities. Generally, our Central Treasury seeks to hedge currency risks that may have a negative impact on our cash flows, although there can be no guarantee that our hedging strategies will succeed. Currency risks may have a negative impact on our results of operations when amounts in local currencies are translated into euros, particularly in connection with U.S. dollar-denominated and British pound sterling-denominated results. For more information with respect to the impact of exchange rates and currency translations, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Consolidated Results of Operations.” We are also exposed to interest-rate risks, primarily in relation to the euro, U.S. dollar and British pound sterling currencies. Interest-rate risks arise as a result of fluctuations in interest rates affecting the level of interest payments due on indebtedness at variable rates in each of these currencies. Once per year, our Management Board specifies ratios of fixed and variable debt in these three currencies. Our Central Treasury then takes measures, using derivative instruments and other measures, to implement the interest-risk management decisions of the Management Board. 15 Table of Contents For more information about our hedging activities and interest-rate and market risks, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” In 2007, all three rating agencies maintained our long-term rating at either A- or A3. However, in May 2007, Fitch Ratings changed its outlook from “stable” to “negative.” A decrease in our credit ratings below certain thresholds by various rating agencies would result in an increase in interest rates due to step-up provisions in certain bonds and medium-term notes. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Resources—Step-up Provisions.” Developments in the telecommunications sector have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of certain of our assets. We review on a regular basis the value of each of our subsidiaries and their assets. In addition to our regular annual impairment reviews, whenever indications exist that goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets may be impaired due to changes in the economic, regulatory, business or political environment, we consider the necessity of performing certain valuation tests, which may result in impairment charges. The recognition of impairments of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and financial assets could cause us to take large, non-cash charges against net profit, which could lead to a reduction in the trading price of our shares and ADSs. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates.” 16 Table of Contents 