RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, investors in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below. Our financial condition or results of operations, or the trading prices of our securities, could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion contains a number of forward-looking statements. Please refer to the “Forward-Looking Statements” discussion at the front of this Annual Report for cautionary information. An economic downturn, a substantial slowdown in economic growth or deterioration in consumer spending could adversely affect our customers’ purchases of our products and services in each of our operating segments, which could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our business is influenced by general economic conditions in Germany, Europe and the United States. The economic outlook for 2010 signals a slight recovery, including in our largest markets in Europe and the United States, but the global economic situation remains fragile. A continuous deterioration in the economic environment could have an adverse effect on the level of demand by our individual customers for our products and services and the willingness of our business customers to invest in information and communications technology (ICT). This could, in turn, jeopardize the attainment of our growth targets, such as those relating to multimedia services in mobile telecommunications, or those relating to broadband products and services based on digital subscriber line (DSL) technology. Because we operate in heavily regulated business environments, decisions that regulatory authorities impose on us restrict flexibility in managing our business and may force us to offer services to competitors, or reduce the prices we charge for our products and services, either of which could have a material negative impact on our revenues, profits and market shares. We are subject to strict regulation in all of our fixed-line and mobile markets in Europe and the United States. Government agencies regularly intervene in the offerings and in the pricing of our fixed-line and mobile products and services. Regulation can impede our ability to grow and to react to the initiatives of competitors and technological change. Amendments to the EU Telecommunications Framework entered into force on December 17, 2009. Whether the revised regulatory framework will increase or decrease the regulatory burden on us will depend on the manner in which revised directives are subsequently implemented in the EU Member States, and how the revised regulatory framework will be applied by the respective National Regulatory Authorities. In June 2009, the European Commission also proposed a draft recommendation on regulated access to Next Generation Access Networks, or NGA, such as access to new and existing ducts, civil engineering structures and other elements which are not active and necessary for the roll-out of fiber-based telecommunications infrastructure. The objective of the recommendation is to regulate fiber-based telecommunications infrastructure and access. If this recommendation is implemented as currently drafted may cause a decrease in our revenues and may impact the extent and timing of our NGA build-out. The German telecommunications regulatory framework implemented by the Federal Network Agency (Bundesnetzagentur) has an especially significant impact on our domestic business. So far, we have been exempted from regulation on the basis of a loss of significant market power in markets of relatively minor importance only, such as the market for fixed-line international calls. Additionally, since we are offering mobile and fixed-line triple-play services (“triple-play” includes high-speed Internet access, communications services and entertainment offerings), media regulation may become increasingly important to our business. This regulation might restrict our ability to provide media services, including the delivery of content, and could also result in additional costs for technical implementation measures needed to comply with increased regulation. Mobile Telecommunications Operations Regulatory authorities supervise our mobile telecommunications operations in the countries in which we operate. We expect a tightening of regulatory control in the area of mobile telecommunications, with a probable negative effect on pricing and revenues, for example as a result of further reductions in international roaming charges for the wholesale and retail voice market, international data and SMS roaming charges, call termination charges and possible access regulation in some markets. In Europe, national regulatory authorities and various EU bodies have the power to regulate based on market investigations or reviews. 7 Table of Contents With respect to international roaming charges for the wholesale and retail voice market, a European Union-wide regulation, valid until June 2010, is presently in place. On July 1, 2009, a new EU roaming regulation came into force and expanded the existing regulation to non-voice roaming services until June 30, 2012. Besides additional reduction of wholesale and retail voice roaming tariffs, SMS roaming charges were reduced and furthermore, price caps for wholesale data roaming tariffs and additional transparency measures have been introduced. This expansion of existing regulation has an additional negative effect on our roaming revenues. Mobile call termination charges are also subject to regulatory measures in countries with mobile telecommunications operations that can have a negative effect on revenues. Various reviews of call termination rates and court proceedings relating to regulatory measures are pending in several of those markets. The European Commission intends to further reduce the termination rates significantly and has therefore issued a recommendation that defines details for the calculation of termination rates by the National Regulatory Authorities. The recommendation neglects significant parts of the costs of mobile operators in the termination rate calculation. Despite these serious negative consequences for the mobile industry the recommendation was adopted in May 2009. If the European Commission were to further reduce termination rates, it may have an adverse effect on the profitability of our mobile-telecommunications operations in Europe. Our operations in the United States are regulated primarily by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and by various other federal, state and local governmental agencies. These governmental agencies may also exercise jurisdiction over mobile telecommunications operators. The FCC is continually considering whether to establish new rules and policies, many of which, if implemented could impose significant costs and burdens on our business. The most significant areas of concern include whether the FCC makes available additional spectrum for next generation wireless offerings in a reasonable timeframe and ensures that existing spectrum holdings remain free and clear of any radio interference concerns. The FCC is also considering imposing new “net neutrality” regulations on wireless carriers that could, depending on how they are defined, restrict a carrier’s ability to manage its network. In addition, many state and local governments regulate various aspects of wireless operations, affecting our business practices and the carrier-customer relationship. In particular, consumer regulation at the federal or state level can impact a variety of carrier practices in this area including for example early termination fees, trial periods, billing practices and marketing. Any state or federal regulation could have a potentially adverse effect on our mobile telecommunications business in the United States, as would any failure to comply with applicable regulations. Some U.S. states have taken actions to regulate various aspects of wireless operations including customer billing, termination of service arrangements and advertising. Any of those agencies could adopt regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we may be subject to sanctions, which may have an adverse effect on our mobile telecommunications business in the United States. Fixed-Network Operations We believe that, for the foreseeable future, the Federal Network Agency is likely to consider us a provider with significant market power in various German markets for public voice telephony services in the fixed-line network and in other markets, including most of those in which we held monopoly rights in the past. Access and price regulation apply primarily to telecommunications services that are considered to involve an operator with "significant market power." As a result, we expect that the strict regulatory provisions of the German Telecommunications Act relating to providers with significant market power will continue to be applied to our activities in those markets. Considering that in many markets our competitors are unlikely to gain significant market power in the near future, we expect that we will have to compete in important markets with providers not subject to these regulatory obligations. Therefore, these competitors may be expected to have more flexibility than we have in terms of the types of services offered and customers served, pricing and the granting of network access. We are required to offer an Internet Protocol (IP) Bitstream Access product in the wholesale-market and are therefore required to offer unbundled broadband access to competitors since April 2008. According to the key elements of the draft market analysis and regulatory order on bitstream access published on October 21, 2009, the Federal Network Agency intends to rely on ex-post regulation but will expand the scope of regulation to include all wholesale bitstream access products, including also new VDSL wholesale services and including the transfer of traffic to a minimum of one point of presence (PoP) whereas until today, a carrier must connect to 73 PoP in order to provide BSA-based retail services on a nationwide basis. The final adoption of this market analysis and regulatory order is expected in the first quarter of 2010. According to a regulatory order, we must grant access to competitors to ducts and street cabinets. The replication of VDSL products, in particular by our competitors using their own infrastructures, is therefore being made easier at our expense. This will have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations, even if we offer our competitors a VDSL product on a voluntary basis. The Federal Network Agency specified the obligations concerning access to cable ducts, dark fiber and co-location within street cabinets on December 4, 2009. We applied for corresponding tariffs in mid-January 2010 and expect a decision in the first quarter of 2010 regarding prices relating to access to ducts and collocation within the street cabinets. 8 Table of Contents We are involved in a number of pending legal proceedings regarding decisions of the Federal Network Agency that concern access charges relating to the local loop. Unbundled local loop charges for monthly rental, as determined by the Federal Network Agency for the period from February 1999 to March 2001, were revoked. The Court criticized the Federal Network Agency’s calculation method for unbundled local loop costs. The Court ruling concerning unbundled local loop charges for the period from 1999 to 2001 became effective in October 2009. As a result, the Federal Network Agency must now decide again on our rate approval applications of 1999. Unbundled local loop charges for monthly rental as well as for one-off services, as determined by the Federal Network Agency for the period April 2001 to March 2003, were also revoked by the Cologne Administrative Court. These rulings are not yet effective due to pending claims of the Federal Network Agency and Deutsche Telekom at the German Federal Administrative Court. It is not possible at present to estimate whether these decisions will require Deutsche Telekom to make payments or price adjustments and if so, in what amount. Our fixed-line subsidiaries in Southern and Eastern Europe are subject to regulatory provisions and risks that are similar to those affecting our fixed-line operations in Germany. For example, we are designated an operator with significant market power in most fixed-line markets in which we operate, including in Hungary, Slovakia, Croatia and Greece. The provision of telecommunications services in Greece is subject to regulation based on European Union legislation, competition law and ex-ante sector-specific regulation transposed in 2006 in the Greek Telecommunications Law. A second round of analysis of the markets for wholesale broadband access and wholesale (physical) network infrastructure access (including shared or fully unbundled access) at a fixed location was concluded by in the Greek NRA in July 2009. The Greek NRA defined the Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A., (" OTE") as having significant market power and imposed additional obligations. The business impact of increased regulation on our subsidiaries in Southern and Eastern Europe will depend on the way in which national regulatory authorities use their powers, and the extent to which our competitors take advantage of regulatory decisions designed to foster increased competition. For further information regarding the matters discussed above and other aspects of the regulatory environments to which our businesses are subject, see “Item 4. Information on the Company – Regulation” and “Item 8. Financial Information – Legal Proceedings.” We face intense competition in all areas of our business, which could lead to reduced prices for our products and services and a decrease in market share in certain service areas, thereby adversely affecting our revenues and net profit. Germany In Germany, fixed-line network voice telephony service revenues and prices have continued to decline, primarily due to intense competition and adverse decisions imposed by the national regulation authorities, and also due to customers’ ongoing substitution of mobile telecommunications and VoIP services for fixed-line usage. Due to competitive pressures from cable operators, mobile operators and fixed-line carriers, we continued to lose market share in 2009. We expect a further increase in competition from cable operators, in particular, offerings of product bundles for telephone and broadband access lines, which are increasingly offered in more regions throughout Germany. Furthermore, the switch of mobile operators’ focus from pure mobile services towards fixed-line offerings, regulatory actions by the Federal Network Agency and the increasing quality and acceptance of VoIP services will increase pressure on our market shares, revenues and margins. Additional local and regional network operators are expanding their presence to include other major cities and regions. In the future, we could face even fiercer competition and lose further market share if our competitors were to combine their businesses. Existing mobile substitution effects are intensified by the proliferation of MVNOs. Reduced prices for mobile telecommunications services (e.g., on the basis of lower flat rates without call-based charges and regulatory decisions regarding mobile telephony termination rates) could further increase pricing pressure on our fixed-line services. Furthermore, mobile operators are increasingly engaging in reselling DSL product bundles provided by other fixed-line operators, and this continues to have an adverse effect on our fixed-line network revenues. The German markets for Internet access and portal services, especially within the broadband market, have been, and will continue to be, highly competitive and are increasingly saturated. Prices for broadband flat rates have been steadily declining. Our future competitive position in the broadband/fixed-network business in Germany will be affected by pricing, network speed and reliability, services offered, customer support and its ability to be technologically adept and innovative. The regulatory environment can also exert a significant influence on the level of competition. We expect that our competitors will continue to pursue new broadband customers aggressively. In the market for portal services and content, competition is also intense due to low barriers to entry. In addition, a weaker economy may increase pressure on our revenues and margins in these markets. Furthermore, recent regulatory decisions have required us to offer to our competitors an IP Bitstream Access product, which enables our competitors to expand their operations throughout Germany without building their own infrastructure. Part of the challenge in the fixed-network business in Germany continues to be the improvement of our reputation for customer service while implementing cost-saving measures. If we do not continue to improve our customer service sustainably, there is a risk that we might not stop our overall continuing loss of fixed-network customers in the German market. 9 Table of Contents Competition in the German mobile telecommunications segment with established players such as Vodafone, E-Plus and O2 is intensive and can be expected to increase further in the future. Growing competition is also fostered by resellers and “no-frills” operators, offering discount rates without significant minimum-contract term obligations. With our “Congstar” brand, we also participate in this market, primarily as a measure to prevent churn from our established “T-Mobile” premium brand. In terms of the mobile share of “total telecommunications minutes”, Germany consistently lags behind the European average. Although the number of “mobile minutes” is still growing in Germany, the respective growth rates are constantly declining since early 2008. This makes it all the more difficult to compensate price declines by higher usage. As the German market for mobile telecommunications has become increasingly saturated (we believe the overall penetration rate to be well above 100%), the focus of competition has been shifting from customer acquisition to customer retention, and increasing the quality and value of existing customers. Accordingly, if we are unable to offer increased quality and better value to our customers, our market share and revenues may not grow as we have anticipated in our plans. United States In the United States, each of T-Mobile USA’s three main national competitors – AT&T, Verizon Wireless and Sprint/Nextel – is significantly larger than T-Mobile USA. Their scale could afford them significant structural and competitive advantages in this market. This situation presents T-Mobile USA with a long-term challenge to compete effectively in terms of pricing, products, coverage and the introduction of new technologies and services. Intense competition from various regional and other small national operators also exists in T-Mobile USA’s markets. Partly, these competitors operate on alternative business models within the traditional wireless space that pose potential to negatively affect T-Mobile USA’s ability to attract and retain customers, such as low-cost unlimited prepaid offerings (offered by, e.g., regional carriers Leap and MetroPCS, as well as Boost). In addition to traditional competitors, the entrance and influence of non-wireless carriers, such as manufacturers, service providers and cable providers, could cause further pressure on the wireless industry and T-Mobile USA. The incumbent wireless industry is experiencing disruptive innovation on many fronts. For example, Apple transformed the device market with the launch of the iPhone, and Clearwire hopes to transform the market with fixed mobile convergence. As wireless networks open in response to consumer demand (and threatened legislative/regulatory actions) and diverse industries converge on the wireless communications industry, the era of limited choices (walled gardens controlled by incumbent wireless carriers) will increasingly shift to a new era of an abundance of options in devices, providers, and services. This dynamic environment poses opportunity for companies who identify and recognize opportunities within the threats, although a significantly higher level of inherent risk comes with dynamism than with a stable industry landscape. Despite the continued difficult economic context, the wireless industry is faring better than most industries (wireless spending is becoming less discretionary in the U.S.), but the industry is not immune from the cost-reduction efforts of consumers and changes in consumer credit-worthiness. As the overall drop in customer growth intensifies, and price competition also in the Contract area becomes more perceptible, a comprehensive 3G coverage and attractive “smartphone” offerings will be key to T-Mobile USA’s sustained commercial success. Since T-Mobile USA is a significant contributor to our overall revenues and customer growth, a further slowdown or decline in the business of T-Mobile USA could have a material adverse effect on the attainment of the growth targets and profitability of our Group as a whole. Europe Competition in the European mobile telecommunications markets run by our Europe operating segment is intense and can be expected to increase in the future. Growing competition results, in part, from the market entry of low cost carriers, such as mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, which use the networks of other operators at volume discounts, and from market consolidation. If prices for mobile telecommunications services continue to decline through competition and/or regulation more than anticipated and this decline is not compensated for by higher usage, planned objectives may not be achieved. In addition, mobile network operators’ expansion of product offerings into the fixed-line sector may result in a competitive disadvantage for our mobile telecommunications operations in countries in which we offer only mobile communications services. Moreover, technologies such as W-LAN, WiMax and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), which can be used with existing hardware and platforms, could drive voice and data traffic from mobile networks, which could lead to significant price and revenue reductions. As European markets have become increasingly saturated, the focus of competition has been shifting from customer acquisition to customer retention, and increasing the quality and value of existing customers. Accordingly, if we are unable to offer increased quality and better value to our customers, our market share and revenues may not grow as we have anticipated in our plans. 10 Table of Contents Southern and Eastern Europe Through our investments in OTE, our subsidiary in Greece, and Magyar Telekom, our subsidiary in Hungary, and our subsidiaries Hrvatski Telekom and Slovak Telekom, we have market presence in various countries of the Southern and Eastern European region, offering integrated or either mobile or fixed-network telecommunications services. All of our Southern and Eastern European companies face intense competition and difficult economic conditions. As in other operating segments, growing competition results, to a different extent in each regional market, from the market entry of alternative carriers (such as Cable TV operators) or low cost carriers (such as MVNOs), technology shifts (such as IP-based telecommunications networks) and from market consolidation. In Greece, risk exists in the area of infrastructure roll-out, including VDSL and FTTX. The Greek government announcement an initiative to support a passive optical network across Greece that would provide open access to all fixed-network providers and, as a result, increase competition. The impact of this development on OTE and the related financial risk to us cannot be quantified at this point. Systems Solutions Our Systems Solutions business is subject to risks associated with the general and regional economies of its customers and the willingness and ability of its customers to invest in information and communications technology services and products. The ICT market is shaped by long sales cycles, severe competition and declining prices. The result is downward pressure on revenues and margins, which has been exacerbated by the global economic crisis. Depending on the economic development and their impact on our customers in 2010, T-Systems will continue to be affected. For example, cost-cutting programs and postponement or cancellation of investments of our customers can have a negative impact on T-System’s revenues and margins. In this business environment, further cost reductions will force T-Systems to rely on the development of lower cost near- and off shore capacities in both IT Outsourcing and the System Integration business. In addition, the international growth potential of T-Systems may be constrained by its limited brand recognition in some national markets, at least compared to that of competitors who may be more established there, particularly as this relates to maintaining and increasing business with multinational companies outside of Germany. Additionally the relatively small size of some international T-Systems units may require expensive additional management resources from Germany. If T-Systems’ focus on multinational customers and its service offerings, such as dynamic SAP services or Cloud Computing are not successful, T-Systems may lose market share to its competitors, suffer reduced revenues and incur losses. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company – Description of Business.” We may realize neither the expected level of demand for our products and services, nor the expected level or timing of revenues generated by those products and services, as a result of lack of market acceptance, technological change or delays from suppliers, which could adversely affect our cash flows. There is a risk that we will not succeed in making customers sufficiently aware of existing and future value-added services or in creating customer acceptance of these services at the prices we would want to charge. There is also a risk that we will not identify trends correctly, or that we will not be able to bring new services to market as quickly or price-competitively as our competitors. These risks exist, in particular, with respect to our anticipated future growth drivers in the mobile telecommunications area, such as mobile data services or other advanced technologies (which are supported by advanced “smartphone” products such as the iPhone and the T-Mobile G1 phone), and in the fixed-line telecommunications area, such as triple-play services, which include telephone, Internet and television services. Under the “Entertain” product name, we provide our customers in Germany with comprehensive triple-play offerings. The market acceptance for these new products and services could be negatively affected by an unwillingness to pay for additional features. Since the content and technology of the product are very complex, we may find it difficult to convey an understanding of the product’s benefits to our customers via our traditional sales channels. In addition, some of our competitors offer similar or pared-down products. These factors could lead to a potential reduction of the perceived value of “Entertain” to our customers with adverse effects on our pricing models, revenues and profit margins. 11 Table of Contents Further, as a result of rapid technological progress, and the trend towards technological convergence, there is a danger that new and established information and telecommunications technologies or products may not only fail to complement one another, but in some cases may even substitute for one another. An example of this is VoIP, a technology that is already established in the business customer market. VoIP has now reached the consumer market as well and, as a technology that competes directly with traditional fixed-line telephony services, VoIP has the potential to reduce further our market share and revenues in our fixed-line business. The introduction of mobile handsets with VoIP functionality may also adversely affect our pricing structures and market share in our mobile voice telephony business. If we do not appropriately anticipate the demand for new technologies, and adapt our strategies and cost structures accordingly, we may be unable to compete effectively, with the result that our business activities, financial condition and results may suffer. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business.” Some of our investments (such as in new spectrum licenses) to develop future products and services may involve substantial cash outlays with no certainty of market acceptance or regulatory non-interference with license requirements. In 2010, the German Federal Network Agency is set to auction off certain recently released radio frequencies. The terms and conditions for the award of new spectrum in the 800 MHz, 1.8 GHz, 2 GHz, and 2.6 GHz bands were published in October 2009. In the United Kingdom, current proposals call for a combined auction of 800 MHz and 2.6 GHz spectrum in late 2010 with certain bidding restrictions, such as spectrum caps for incumbents and joint ventures, release of spectrum already held by mobile telecommunications companies and wholesale and coverage obligations. In the Netherlands, parliament began the discussion of new rules for the auction of 2.6 GHz spectrum in spring 2009, and it is officially still expected to take place in the first quarter of 2010. In Austria, an auction for 2.6 GHz spectrum is now expected to take place in the second quarter of 2010. Depending on the outcome of these auctions, a greater cash outlay than anticipated may be necessary to gain new spectrum in these countries, which would negatively affect our cash-flow generation goals. There is a risk that the return on our investments, in particular in new spectrum licenses and network infrastructure, may negatively deviate from our plans. In addition to the negative impact on our cash flows, this could result in significant write-downs of the value of spectrum or other licenses or other network-related investments. Should we face a continuously deteriorating economic climate, we may decide, or be required, to scale back capital expenditures. We believe that we have flexibility in terms of the amount and timing of our capital expenditure program, but a lasting reduction in capital expenditure levels below certain thresholds could affect our future growth, in particular in our mobile operations. Failure to achieve our planned reduction and restructuring of personnel or our human resources-related cost-savings goals could negatively affect our reputation and the achievement of our financial objectives and profitability. Staff restructuring within the Deutsche Telekom Group in Germany continued on a socially conscious basis in 2009. It was implemented essentially by means of voluntary redundancies, partial and early retirement, and employment opportunities for civil servants and employees offered by Vivento, especially in the public sector. We will also continue to restructure our workforce as required. If it is not possible to implement the corresponding measures to the extent planned or not at all, this may have negative effects on our financial targets and profitability. Deutsche Telekom and employee representatives agreed to 3,000 job cuts at T-Systems by 2010. The agreement incorporates a series of measures, including help in searching for new jobs, a voluntary redundancy program and early retirement options. In the first quarter of 2010, T-Systems will examine the level of take-up for the voluntary offers. If the affected employees have not found alternative employment opportunities or accepted voluntary offers by then, they will be offered fixed-term employment in a transitional company. Should the desired workforce reduction targets not be met, compulsory redundancies, which could have a negative impact on our corporate reputation in Germany, cannot be ruled out. The successful realization of our ongoing staff reduction program depends on a range of factors that are beyond our control, such as the continued successful sale of non-core businesses, general developments in the labor market, the demand for our retrained labor force, and the level of acceptance of the various severance offers and other voluntary reduction measures. If the planned staff reduction targets are not achieved, this would have a negative effect on our operating expenses and profitability. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Group Headquarters and Shared Services” and “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations—Other Employees.” 12 Table of Contents As a result of dispositions of certain non-core businesses in Germany, there is an increased risk of return of civil servants transferred out of the Group, which could have a negative impact on our staff and cost reduction objectives. Our employees who have civil servant status can, based on German civil service law, only be completely transferred to the buyer of a business from us in exceptional cases. Therefore, as a general matter, such transferred civil servants are placed on leave of absence while employed with the transferred business unit. Accordingly, in the event of termination of employment with the transferred business unit, there is a risk that such civil servants will return to the Deutsche Telekom Group. This risk of return can be reduced by an agreement on compensation payments, but it cannot be completely eliminated. As of December 31, 2009, the total number of civil servants that can avail themselves of this right of return to the Deutsche Telekom Group was 3,467, which represented a considerable decrease over the 2008 year-end figure, chiefly as a result of some 400 civil servants actually returning to the Deutsche Telekom Group from Strabag, Nokia Siemens Networks and the cable network operators. If further Group units employing civil servants are disposed of, the risk of additional civil servants returning after the end of their temporary leave may again increase. For further information regarding civil servants and general human resources-related matters, see “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations.” Alleged health risks of wireless communications devices have led to litigation affecting markets with our mobile telecommunications operations subsidiaries, and could lead to decreased wireless communications usage or increased difficulty in obtaining sites for base stations and, as a result, adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our wireless services business. Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless mobile devices and cell sites may raise various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Research and studies are ongoing. The World Health Organization has indicated that it will publish its recommendations for public policy in its Radio Frequency Environmental Health Criteria in 2011. However, on the basis of current scientific knowledge, there are no known adverse effects on health from emissions at levels below internationally recognized health and safety standards. We cannot provide assurance that research in the future will not establish links between radio frequency emissions and health risks. Whether or not such research or studies conclude there is a link between radio frequency emissions and health, popular concerns about radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of wireless devices and may result in significant restrictions on the location and operation of cell sites by our mobile telecommunications subsidiaries and the usage of T-Home’s wireless devices, telephones or products using wireless technology. Such restrictions on use could have material adverse effects on our results of operations. T-Mobile USA is subject to current and potential litigation relating to these health concerns. Several class action and individual lawsuits have been filed in the United States against T-Mobile USA and several other wireless service operators and wireless telephone manufacturers, asserting product liability, breach of warranty and other claims relating to radio frequency transmissions to and from wireless mobile devices. The complaints seek substantial monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. To date, the cases filed against T-Mobile USA have been dismissed by the trial courts, although one class action case is pending on appeal. The defense of lawsuits alleging adverse health effects from wireless telephone use may divert management’s attention, and T-Mobile USA may be required to pay significant awards or settlements and incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. We do not know whether legislators, regulators or private litigants will refrain from taking other actions adverse to us, based on the purported health-related risks associated with radio frequency emissions. Any such litigation, legislation or adverse actions may result in additional costs and loss of revenues in our mobile communications businesses. For more information, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We continuously engage in large-scale programs to reshape our information technology (IT) infrastructure to adapt to changing customer needs and organizational requirements. Failure to effectively plan and monitor these activities could lead to misallocations of resources and impaired processes with negative consequences for our operations. The “Next Generation IT (NG IT)” program was launched in 2008 as a Group-wide framework for all IT-related components of our transformation programs and the development of our future overall IT architecture. Its focus is on a common platform to support IT projects and services in the future. The close cooperation between IT and business areas plays a central role in this program. Flexibility, cost reduction, short response time to market changes and secure management of business information are the major challenges for our future IT landscape. In order to tackle these challenges, an architectural approach was developed to identify the necessary IT changes, taking into account developments in business processes, in the production environment and in customer and product management. Due to the enormous complexity of the implementation of this IT initiative, malfunctions, connectivity issues, implementation delays, and other unforeseen problems, could result in costly process impairments and remediation, and possible extended down-times of IT processes, and therefore frustrate the attainment of our goals in terms of cost savings and quality improvements. 13 Table of Contents One of our most important IT programs deals with the long-term development and implementation of a comprehensive IP platform that will support both fixed-line and mobile telephony services. This means that the traditional platform will be completely replaced by an IP-based system. Upon implementing this joint IP platform, we will be subject to risks inherent in all IT systems connected to the Internet, such as hacker attacks, “spam calls” and other disruptions. These risks could lead to a temporary interruption of our IT resources and, as a result, impair the performance of our technical infrastructure. System failures due to natural or man-made disruptions and loss of data could result in reduced user traffic and reduced revenues and could harm our reputation and results. Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure for fixed-line network services and mobile telecommunications services) and data may be damaged or disrupted by fire, lightning, flooding and other calamities, technology failures, human error, terrorist attacks, hacker attacks and malicious actions (e.g., theft or misuse of customer data), and other similar events. We attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a large number of measures, including a comprehensive monitoring of our telecommunications networks, backup systems and protective systems such as firewalls, virus scanners, and building security. In addition, we have implemented a global business continuity management system at our corporate headquarters. We cannot, however, be certain that these measures will be effective under all circumstances, and that disruptions (such as the network outage at T-Mobile Deutschland in April 2009 or the outage of a critical “Sidekick” user database in the U.S. in October 2009) or damages will not occur. Disruption or damage to our infrastructure may result in reduced user traffic and revenues, increased costs, and damage to our reputation. Shortcomings in our supply and procurement process could negatively affect our product portfolio, revenues and profits. As a fully integrated ICT service provider, we cooperate with a wide range of different suppliers for technical components and assemblies, as well as for software and other goods and information important to the conduct of our business. Although we do not believe that we are materially dependent on any single supplier, our contractors may want to extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages or changing business and product strategies. Furthermore, our vendors may be subject to litigation with respect to technology that is important for the conduct of our business. Especially in times of economic turmoil, supply chains, credit access and financial stability of our vendors may be negatively affected, which could disturb our commercial relationship with them. If our commercial partners fail to deliver quality products and services in a timely manner, the ensuing disruptions in our chain of supply could negatively affect our product portfolio, cost structure, revenues and profits. We take a variety of measures to shelter ourselves from these risks, but we cannot be sure that these measures will be effective under all circumstances. We are continuously involved in disputes and litigation with regulators, competition authorities, competitors and other parties. The ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings is generally uncertain. When finally concluded, they may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous risks relating to legal and regulatory proceedings, in which we are currently a party or which could develop in the future. Litigation and regulatory proceedings, including patent infringement lawsuits, are inherently unpredictable. Legal or regulatory proceedings in which we are or come to be involved (or settlements thereof) may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For information concerning some of the litigation in which we are involved, including with respect to Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa Sp.z o.o (“PTC”) and Toll Collect, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” For information concerning our regulatory environment, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” We face allegations of data misuse and flaws in our security systems. Despite diverse measures taken to protect customer data, damage to our reputation remains a significant risk, which may also affect our business. The Bonn public prosecutor's office is still investigating the circumstances surrounding the illegal monitoring of phone calls and the theft of data relating to several million mobile customers. As a result of these events, we implemented several measures to further improve data security and transparency, including the creation of a new Management Board position relating to data privacy, compliance and legal affairs, which has the right to veto Management Board business decisions related to data privacy. A first voluntary annual progress report, prepared by the Group Privacy Officer, was published in April 2009 and submitted to the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection, our Supervisory Board and the public. A newly established Data Privacy Advisory Board advises our Management Board on all issues related to data privacy. The Advisory Board closely consults with leading data privacy experts from outside the Group with regard to the handling of customer and employee data, data privacy audits, IT security and the consequences of the introduction of new legal provisions. Data privacy contacts were nominated at each level of the organization to ensure an intense cooperation with our operating segments. Additionally, we established a dedicated website to keep the public informed of ongoing developments in this area. However, despite extensive testing by internal and external audits, there can be no assurance that the current investigations will not result in the imposition of additional remedial measures or that further breaches relating to our customer data will not materialize in the future. 14 Table of Contents Future sales of our shares by the Federal Republic or KfW Bankengruppe (“KfW”) may adversely affect the trading prices of our shares and ADSs. The Federal Republic (which, together with KfW, owns approximately 31.7% of our outstanding shares) has previously indicated an intent to continue with its privatization policy. In this regard, we cannot predict if and when the Federal Republic will further reduce its holdings of its equity interest in Deutsche Telekom AG. The reduction in the Federal Republic’s direct or indirect holdings may involve KfW. For shareholders, there is a danger that the market offering of a significant volume of our shares by either the Federal Republic or KfW, or speculation to this effect on the markets, could have a negative impact on the price of our shares and ADSs. Certain of KfW’s debt instruments are exchangeable into shares of Deutsche Telekom AG, which, upon exchange, could also have a negative impact on the price of our shares. KfW issued a class of exchangeable bonds on May 16, 2008 that matures in June 2013. Exchangeable bonds are debt securities that the holder may exchange for shares in another company during a predefined period and at a predefined price. When the exchange price is exceeded and when the holder exercises the exchange right, KfW will be obligated to exchange the bonds offered for Deutsche Telekom AG shares. When the exchangeable bonds mature in June 2013, KfW has the right to settle them in Deutsche Telekom AG shares. These exchangeable bonds in the aggregate amount of EUR 3.3 billion have a share exchange price of EUR 14.9341 per ordinary share. Accordingly, approximately 221 million shares may be delivered by KfW in exchange for the outstanding bonds maturing in June 2013. The delivery to debt holders by KfW of a significant amount of our shares could have a negative impact on the market price of our shares. Exchange-rate, interest-rate and rating risks have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our revenue and cost development. We are exposed to currency risks related to our international business activities. Generally, our Central Treasury hedges currency risks that may have an impact on our cash flows (so called, known as a transaction risk), although there can be no guarantee that our hedging strategies will succeed. Currency risks may have a negative impact on our results of operations when amounts in local currencies are translated into euros, particularly in connection with U.S. dollar- and pound sterling-denominated results. For more information with respect to the impact of exchange rates and currency translation, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Consolidated Results of Operations.” We are also exposed to interest-rate risks, primarily in the Euro and U.S. dollar currencies. Interest-rate risks arise as a result of fluctuations in interest rates affecting the level of interest payments due on indebtedness at variable rates in each of these currencies. Once per year, our Management Board specifies ratios of fixed and variable debt in these two currencies. Our Central Treasury then takes measures, using derivative instruments and other measures, to implement the interest-risk management decisions of the Management Board. For more information about our hedging activities and interest-rate and market risks, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.”. In 2009, Fitch changed our long-term rating from A- to BBB+ with a stable outlook. Moody’s Investor Service and Standard and Poor’s maintained our long-term rating at Baa1 and BBB+ respectively with a stable outlook. A further decrease in our credit ratings below certain thresholds by various rating agencies would result in an increase in the interest rates on certain of our bonds and medium-term notes due to step-up provisions and could raise the cost of our debt refinancing activities generally. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Resources – Step-up Provisions.” We aim to solely place our financial investments at financial institutions that have high credit ratings. As a result of international M&A transactions, the investment portfolio of newly acquired entities may not always meet this requirement. In individual cases, we thus may face a risk of unplanned write offs. Risky financial exposures to financial institutions by subsidiaries in Southern and Eastern Europe in particular exist on account of transfer restrictions or shareholder resolutions. With our investment in OTE, exposures to credit risks associated with deposits with various, mostly regional banks in Southern and Eastern Europe became part of our exposure. The goal is to spread these exposures in order to achieve a higher degree of diversification. As a result of a major restructuring program, we will bring together our domestic fixed-network business and our domestic mobile business within a new Germany company. Failure to achieve a smooth transition to “One Company” could negatively affect our business processes, operational systems and customer service. On November 19, 2009, an extraordinary shareholders meeting approved the spin-off of the fixed-network business in Germany into “T-Mobile Deutschland GmbH”. The "new" company will be responsible for almost 27 million fixed-network lines – of which some 13 million support DSL – and more than 39 million mobile lines. In total, just under 85,000 employees will work in this company. With this move, we plan to be in a better position to offer integrated solutions and services for fixed network and mobile communications from a single source. In addition, we project to reinforce customer service, safeguard jobs, and tap the potential for additional revenue and cost synergies. 15 Table of Contents A successful completion of creating “One Company” in the course of the second quarter of 2010 will require major organizational efforts, and the realignment of numerous people, processes and IT-systems. If the planned targets are not achieved, there is a risk that the transition period will last longer than expected, and that our operational performance in Germany will be periodically disturbed. Developments in the telecommunications sector have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of certain of our assets. We review on a regular basis the value of each of our subsidiaries and their assets. In addition to our regular annual impairment reviews, whenever indications exist that goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets may be impaired due to changes in the economic, regulatory, business or political environment, we consider the necessity of performing certain valuation tests, which may result in impairment charges. The recognition of impairments of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and financial assets could cause us to take large, non-cash charges against net profit, which could lead to a reduction in the trading price of our shares and ADSs. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates.” Potential breaches of compliance requirements or the identification of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on our corporate reputation, financial condition and the trading price of our securities. In general, compliance requirements for publicly traded companies and, in particular, the investigation of potential breaches and corporate misconduct are increasing and leading to major financial implications for the companies concerned. At the same time, the legal framework governing the monitoring of companies is becoming more comprehensive, which increases the liability risks for executive bodies and associated costs. While we believe that we have established an appropriate compliance organization to detect, assess, reduce and manage these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks and their related consequences will continue to exist. Although we intend to take prompt measures to remediate any identified shortcomings in our internal controls over financial reporting, activities of this kind may involve significant effort and expense, and disclosure of any failures, material weakness or other conditions, may result in a deterioration of our corporate image and negative market reactions. For more information with regard to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, see “Item 15.Controls and Procedures – (b) Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” 16 Table of Contents 