RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, investors in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below. Our financial condition or results of operations, or the trading prices of our securities, could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion contains a number of forward-looking statements. Please refer to the "Forward-Looking Statements" discussion at the front of this Annual Report for cautionary information. An economic downturn, a substantial slowdown in economic growth or a deterioration in consumer spending could adversely affect our customers' purchases of our products and services in each of our strategic business areas, which could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our business depends to a large degree on general economic conditions in Germany, other European countries in which we do business and the United States. The prospects for the development of the German economy in 2007 might deteriorate if the value added tax (VAT) in Germany is increased according to plans of the new German government. An increase in VAT may have a negative effect on private consumption in Germany, as well as on our margins, since we may not be able to pass through the additional VAT to our customers. If economic growth in our markets proves to be low or non-existent, because of current or anticipated circumstances, this could have an adverse effect on the level of demand by our individual customers and the willingness of our key business customers to invest in information and communications technology (ICT). This could, in turn, jeopardize our growth targets—for example, those relating to multimedia services in mobile telecommunications, or those relating to broadband products and services based on DSL (digital subscriber line) technology. Because we operate in heavily regulated business environments, decisions that regulatory authorities impose on us restrict flexibility in managing our business and may force us to offer services to competitors, or reduce the prices we charge for our products and services, either of which could have a material negative impact on our revenues, profits and market shares. Unlike many of our competitors, we are subject to strict regulation in many market segments in Germany, particularly in many areas of the fixed-line network business of our Broadband/Fixed Network strategic business area. Government agencies regularly intervene in the offerings of our products and services and in the pricing of our products and services. Such regulation places enormous pricing and competitive pressures on us and on our ability to generate revenues and profits. On June 26, 2004, amendments to the German Telecommunications Act (Telekommunikationsgesetz, the "Telecommunications Act") became effective. Although the precise effects of the amendments to the Telecommunications Act are still not definite in all segments of the German telecommunications market, it is already clear that regulatory intervention will continue in certain market sectors of our business. The Bundesnetzagentur (the "Federal Network Agency," formerly, the Regulierungsbehörde für Telekommunikation und Post) is required to decide which telecommunications products and services are to be regulated in a particular market segment. The Telecommunications Act requires the regulation of telecommunications services that are considered by the Federal Network Agency to involve a provider with "significant market power." So far, we have been exempted from regulation on the basis of a loss of significant market power in markets of minor importance only, such as the market for foreign long-distance calls in fixed-line networks. It is possible that services not previously regulated will be subject to future regulation, such as international roaming or voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) services. Further, we expect that the Federal Network Agency will publish various regulatory ordinances interpreting the provisions of the Telecommunications Act, which may negatively affect the prices we charge for certain of our products and services. The recently elected German government may be expected to take up earlier plans to amend the Telecommunications Act. If adopted in the form 7 previously considered, these amendments would intensify existing customer protection rules, which could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and entail additional operating costs. The European Union is establishing an E.U.-wide regime of data retention requirements for law enforcement purposes. These requirements establish minimum standards for both the types of data to be retained and the term of their retention. After adoption of the relevant E.U. directive (planned for the spring of 2006), the E.U. requirements will have to be implemented into national law of the E.U. Member States within 18 months. Depending on the requirements of the final national rules, compliance with the new data retention requirements could entail considerable initial investment and recurring annual operating costs for us. At this time, it is unclear whether and how we might be compensated for these costs. Broadband/Fixed Network The Federal Network Agency considers us, through our T-Com business unit, to be an "entity with significant market power" in several defined markets for telecommunications services in Germany, particularly the fixed-line market. Many decisions of the Federal Network Agency in 2005, taken under the premise of increasing competition in the German market for fixed-line telecommunications, were unfavorable to T-Com (for example decisions on charges for line sharing and monthly line rental). These regulatory decisions have had a significant effect on our fixed-line network pricing and service offerings, and future regulatory decisions are expected to continue to have a negative impact on T-Com's market shares, revenues and margins. In addition, the Federal Network Agency intends to address other markets that are currently not subject to regulation (for example virtual private networks and VoIP). VoIP is an emerging market for nomadic voice telephony services that are based on the Internet and are not dependent on specific customer telephone lines. Nevertheless, the Federal Network Agency has included VoIP in the same market as conventional voice telephony services. Therefore these services may be treated in the same way as conventional telephone services for the purpose of regulation and may also be subject to price regulation. Additional market regulation is expected to intensify competition in Germany and will, therefore, put pressure on our revenues and the cost structure of our fixed-line network business. In particular, if regulatory measures allow broadband access lines to be "unbundled" (separated) from telephone lines, this could substantially increase the price pressure on, and competition faced by, our fixed-line network business. Even new infrastructure investments, such as our planned new high-speed fiber-optic network as a platform for "triple-play" services (i.e., high-speed Internet access, communications services and entertainment offerings), are in danger of becoming subject to strict regulation by the Federal Network Agency. Although the new E.U. regulatory framework for electronic communications does not provide for an extension of sector-specific regulation to the online communications market, there are some indications that the Federal Network Agency may change its legal approach to the regulation of prices for access to online services in the future. We cannot yet determine what effect, if any, such regulation may have on our broadband services offerings. Additionally, Internet subscribers are indirectly affected by the regulation of access tariffs, as wholesale costs include charges for telecommunications services that are regulated by the Telecommunications Act. We are also subject to the laws and regulations of other countries where our affiliates or we have fixed-line network operations, primarily in Central and Eastern Europe. The business impact of increased regulation on our subsidiaries in Central and Eastern Europe will depend on the way in which national regulatory authorities use their acquired powers, and the extent to which our competitors take advantage of regulatory decisions designed to foster increased competition. 8 Further market analysis procedures under the E.U. regulatory framework will be carried out in Hungary and Slovakia in 2006, which could eventually lead to reductions in the prices we may charge to customers, both for wholesale and for retail services. Such developments could also contribute to a loss of our market share in these countries. Our Central and Eastern European subsidiaries might also be required to adjust their product offerings on the wholesale and retail levels in furtherance of competition in the fixed-line network. This would add to the downward pressure on prices in the countries in which they operate. Mobile Communications Our mobile telecommunications operations are supervised by regulatory authorities in the countries in which we operate. We expect tightening of regulatory control in the area of mobile telecommunications, with a probable negative effect on pricing and revenues, as a result of a reduction in international roaming charges, call termination charges and also possible access regulation in some markets. The E.U. regulatory framework defines international wholesale roaming, call termination and access, and origination as separate "markets." On this basis, national regulatory authorities in the European Union are required to carry out market investigations and, if necessary, define regulatory remedies in those markets in accordance with E.U. directives. On February 10, 2005, the E.U. Commission opened formal proceedings against, among others, T-Mobile Deutschland. In the proceedings, the E.U. Commission alleged that T-Mobile Deutschland had been charging excessive wholesale roaming tariffs for calls of foreign visitors in its network during the period from 1997 to 2003. Should the E.U. Commission decide to uphold its preliminary findings, it may impose significant fines on T-Mobile Deutschland. Our telecommunications systems and operations in the United States are regulated primarily by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and by various other federal, state and local governmental bodies. These and other governmental agencies may also exercise jurisdiction over mobile telecommunications operators. Some U.S. states have taken actions to regulate various aspects of wireless operations including, for example, customer billing, termination of service arrangements, and advertising. Any of those agencies could adopt regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we may be subject to sanctions, which may have an adverse effect on our mobile telecommunications business in the United States. For further information regarding the matters discussed above and other aspects of the regulatory environments to which our businesses are subject, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation" and "Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings." We face intense competition in all areas of our business, which could lead to reduced prices for our products and services and a decrease in market share in certain service areas, thereby having an adverse effect on our revenues and net profit. Broadband/Fixed Network In our domestic market, fixed-line network voice telephony service revenues and prices have been declining in recent years, primarily due to intense competition and adverse decisions imposed by the Federal Network Agency, and also due to customers' substitution of mobile telecommunications for fixed-line usage. Competition became even more intense in 2005, resulting in our continued loss of market share. The increase in competition from mobile operators, other fixed-line carriers and cable operators entering the telecommunications market is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. We expect further increases in competitive pressure, due to the offering of attractive product bundles for telephone and broadband access lines, which include a flat rate for Internet service, and other factors, including the increasing quality and acceptance of VoIP services (which, among other things, allow 9 customers to conduct voice communications through their personal computers at low or no calling charges) and regulatory actions by the Federal Network Agency. Additional local and regional network operators are expanding their presence to include other major cities and regions. In the future, we could face even fiercer competition and lose further market share if our competitors were to combine their businesses. Furthermore, alternative carriers are aggressively pursuing a strategy of reduced prices for call pre-selection and call-by-call services. Existing mobile substitution effects are intensified as a result of the proliferation of mobile virtual network operators (MVNO), which continue to have an adverse effect on our fixed-line network revenues. Reduced prices for mobile telecommunications services (e.g., on the basis of lower flat rates without call-based charges) could increase pricing pressure on our fixed-line services. The German and European markets for Internet access and portal services—especially within the broadband market—have been, and will continue to be, highly competitive. Prices for broadband flat rates have been steadily declining. T-Online's future competitive position will be affected by pricing, network speed and reliability, services offered, customer support and its ability to be technologically adept and innovative. The regulatory environment can also exert a significant influence on the level of competition. We expect that T-Online's competitors will continue to pursue new broadband customers aggressively. In the market for portal services and content, competition is also intense, due to low barriers to entry. Each of these developments is expected to continue to erode our market shares and to decrease our revenues and profit margins. For more information, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Broadband/Fixed Network" and "Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation." Mobile Communications During 2004 and 2005, consolidation in the wireless telecommunications sector in the United States has dramatically changed the competitive landscape. Each of T-Mobile USA's three remaining national competitors—Verizon Communications, Inc. ("Verizon"), Cingular Wireless LLC ("Cingular") and Sprint/Nextel Corporation ("Sprint/Nextel")—are significantly larger than T-Mobile USA, with larger spectrum holdings and more than double the customer base. Their scale could afford them significant structural and competitive advantages. Thus, this situation presents a long-term challenge to T-Mobile USA to effectively compete in pricing, products, coverage and the introduction of new technologies and services. Intense competition from various regional operators also exists. Since T-Mobile USA is a significant contributor to our overall revenue and customer growth, a slowdown or decline in the business of T-Mobile USA could have a material adverse effect on the attainment of the growth targets of our group as a whole. Competition in the European mobile telecommunications markets has increased and can be expected to increase in the future. Increasing competition results, in part, from the entry into the market of low-cost carriers, such as MVNOs, which use the networks of other operators at volume discounts, and from market consolidation (e.g., the recent acquisition of O2 plc ("O2") by Telefónica S.A. ("Telefónica"). If prices for mobile telecommunications services continue to decline, T-Mobile may not achieve its growth objectives. As European markets have become increasingly saturated, the focus of competition has been shifting from customer acquisition to customer retention, and increasing the quality and value of existing customers. Accordingly, if we are unable to offer increased quality and better value to our customers, our market share and revenues may not grow as we have anticipated in our growth plans. For more information, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Mobile Communications." 10 Business Customers Our Business Customers strategic business area, operated through T-Systems Business Services GmbH and T-Systems Enterprise Services GmbH (collectively, "T-Systems"), is a provider of solutions covering the entire value chain of information and communications technology. It is subject to risks associated with the general and regional economies of its customers and the willingness and ability of its customers to invest in information and communications technology services and products. The information and communications technology market is shaped by long sales cycles, severe competition and declining prices. The result is downward pressure on revenues and margins and lower predictability of revenue growth. The international growth potential of T-Systems may be constrained by its limited brand recognition in some national markets, at least compared to that of competitors who may be more established there, particularly as this relates to maintaining and increasing business with multinational companies outside of Germany. For more information, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Business Customers." Spectrum capacity may become a limiting factor to T-Mobile USA's growth in the United States. T-Mobile USA's capacity and coverage expansion is dependent on its ability to acquire additional spectrum licenses, which are granted by the FCC or otherwise regulated by the FCC if acquired from third-party operators. The failure to obtain sufficient capacity and spectrum coverage would have a material adverse impact on the quality of T-Mobile USA's services in the United States, and on T-Mobile USA's ability to provide future services in some markets. T-Mobile USA could experience negative operational effects, such as reduced growth of customers and revenues, due to a lack of capacity in specific markets. One opportunity to acquire additional sizable units of spectrum is the Advanced Wireless Services (AWS) auction (1700/2100 MHz), expected to take place in mid-2006. Failure to obtain sufficient spectrum in this auction could inhibit our ability to introduce advanced wireless services and keep pace with our competitors. Prices in spectrum auctions can become high, posing challenges to the attainment of an attractive return on investment. For more information, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation" and "Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Mobile Communications." We may realize neither the expected level of demand for our products and services, nor the expected level or timing of revenues generated by those products and services, as a result of lack of market acceptance, technological change or delays from suppliers, which could adversely affect our cash flows. As a result of rapid technological progress, and the trend towards technological convergence, there is a danger that new and established information and telecommunications technologies or products may not only fail to complement one another, but in some cases may even substitute for one another. An example of this is VoIP, a technology that is already established in the business customer market. VoIP has now reached the consumer market as well and, as a technology that competes directly with traditional fixed-line telephony services, has the potential to reduce our market share and revenues in our fixed-line business. The introduction of mobile handsets with VoIP functionality may also adversely affect our pricing structures and market share in our mobile voice telephony business, particularly in countries where we have a large market share. If we do not appropriately anticipate the demand for new technologies, and adapt our strategies and cost structures accordingly, we may be unable to compete effectively, with the result that our business activities, financial condition and results may suffer. In addition, there is a risk that we will not succeed in making customers sufficiently aware of existing and future value-added services or in creating customer acceptance of these services at the prices we would want to charge. There is a risk that we will not identify trends correctly, or that we will not be able to bring new services to market as quickly or price-competitively as our competitors. These 11 risks exist, in particular, with respect to our anticipated future growth drivers in the mobile telecommunications area (e.g., mobile data services provided via UMTS or other technologies) and in the fixed-line telecommunications area (e.g., triple-play services). Accordingly, there is risk that the return on our investments, in particular in UMTS licenses and network infrastructure, may be negatively affected, which could result in significant write-downs of the value of our UMTS or other licenses or other network-related investments. The business model of our Business Customers strategic business area is focused on implementing major projects in the telecommunications, media & utilities, manufacturing, services, finance and public industry sectors. Because of their scale and complexity, and because of the nature of the contractual agreements that govern them, these projects could give rise to extensive customer claims with respect to warranties, damages or contractual penalties where the service provided by T-Systems is deemed to be unsatisfactory. For more information, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Business Customers." Lawsuits filed by some T-Online shareholders may further delay our planned merger with T-Online International AG, which could have a negative effect on our results. On April 29, 2005, the annual general shareholders' meeting of T-Online International AG ("T-Online") approved the agreement concluded with Deutsche Telekom on March 8, 2005, on the merger of T-Online into Deutsche Telekom. Some T-Online shareholders have filed lawsuits challenging the validity of the resolution of the shareholders' meeting approving the merger. The entry of the merger in the commercial registers of the two companies may only take place, and therefore the merger will only become effective, once the competent court rules finally and conclusively in an accelerated proceeding that the lawsuits do not prevent the entry of the merger in the commercial registers (a "release decision"), or if the court finally and conclusively rejects the lawsuits, or if such lawsuits are withdrawn. The Court of Appeals in Frankfurt am Main, as the court of second instance, issued a release decision in February 2006. This decision however is not yet final and binding; appeals have been filed by some of the opposing parties in the release proceedings, such opposing parties being shareholders who have filed lawsuits challenging the validity of the resolution approving the merger. A delay in the completion of this merger means that planned synergies may not be realized. For example, until the merger it will not be possible to effectively meet the growing demand for a portfolio with fully integrated products, consisting in particular of fixed network telephony and Internet, potentially supplemented by media content. This situation, coupled with the multiple service provider relationships and contacts, makes it more difficult to attract and retain customers. After the merger of T-Online into Deutsche Telekom has become effective, T-Online shareholders who received Deutsche Telekom shares in return for their T-Online shares in the course of the merger can file a legal challenge to have the exchange ratio set forth in the merger agreement reviewed. During the course of this valuation proceeding, the court might, for a variety of reasons, come to the conclusion that the exchange ratio set forth in the merger agreement is too low, from the perspective of the T-Online shareholders, and that the T-Online shareholders should, therefore, be granted a supplementary cash payment. Investors wishing to hold T-Online shares, but not Deutsche Telekom shares, may sell the Deutsche Telekom shares they receive or expect to receive in the course of the merger. This could put pressure on the market price of our shares. For more information, see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Management Overview" and "Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings." 12 Failures to achieve our planned reduction and restructuring of personnel could negatively affect our financial objectives and profitability. We announced an extensive personnel-restructuring program for our operations in Germany in October 2005, under which approximately 19,000 employees will leave the group by 2008. When making these reductions, we will adhere to the agreement with the trade unions not to enforce any compulsory redundancies until the end of 2008, and to the moratorium on redundancies agreed under the 2004 employment alliance. We plan targeted, group-specific measures to implement the personnel-restructuring program. Part of this reduction is to be realized through partial retirement arrangements for salaried employees subject to collective bargaining agreements (non-civil servants.) These plans could be put at risk by possible changes in the law. There are also plans to encourage employees to leave the group, using severance programs based on voluntary arrangements. The implementation of these plans will depend on general developments in the labor market and on the details of the voluntary redundancy program. A critical factor for the overall success of the personnel-restructuring program will be the availability of competitive, flexible and performance-oriented terms and conditions of employment with our civil servants. We expect that a new law providing for this increased flexibility will be adopted in 2006. The successful realization of the staff reduction program depends on a range of factors that are beyond our control, such as the successful deconsolidation of our Vivento operating businesses (call-center and technology maintenance businesses), the market for our retrained labor force and the factors mentioned above. If the planned staff-reduction targets are not achieved, our financial and business objectives may not be achieved, which would have a negative effect on our operating expenses and profitability. For more information, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Group Headquarters and Shared Services" and "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations—Other Employees." Alleged health risks of wireless communications devices have led to litigation affecting T-Mobile, and could lead to decreased wireless communications usage or increased difficulty in obtaining sites for base stations and, thus, adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our mobile telecommunications services business. Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless mobile devices and cell sites may raise various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Research and studies are ongoing. The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared that, on the basis of current scientific knowledge, there are no known adverse effects on health below the international threshold standards, nor is it expecting any serious dangers to arise in the future—although it does recommend continued research due to the ongoing scientific uncertainty. We cannot be certain that medical research in the future will dismiss any and all links between radio-frequency emissions and health risks. Whether or not such research or studies conclude there is a link between radio-frequency emissions and health, popular concerns about radio-frequency emissions may discourage the use of wireless mobile devices and may result in significant restrictions on both the location and operation of cell sites, either or both of which could have a material adverse effect on our or T-Mobile's results of operations. T-Mobile USA is subject to current, and potential, litigation relating to these health concerns. Several amended class action lawsuits have been filed in the United States against T-Mobile USA and several other wireless-service operators and wireless-telephone manufacturers, asserting products liability, breach of warranty and other claims relating to radio- frequency transmissions to and from 13 wireless mobile devices. The complaints seek substantial monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. The defense of these lawsuits may divert management's attention, and T-Mobile USA may be required to pay significant awards or settlements and incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. We do not know whether legislators, regulators or private litigants will refrain from taking other actions adverse to us, based on the purported health-related risks associated with radio-frequency emissions. Any such litigation, legislation or adverse actions may result in additional costs and loss of revenues in our Mobile Communications strategic business area. For more information, see "Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings." System failures due to natural or man-made disruptions could result in reduced user traffic and reduced revenues and could harm our reputation and results. Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure for fixed-line network services and mobile telecommunications services) may be damaged or disrupted by fire, lightning, flooding and other calamities, technology failures, human error, terrorist attacks, hacker attacks and malicious actions, and other similar events. We attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a large number of measures, including backup systems and protective systems such as firewalls, virus scanners, and building security. We cannot, however, be certain that these measures will be effective under all circumstances and that disruptions or damage will not occur. Damage or disruption to our infrastructure may result in reduced user traffic and revenues, increased costs, and damage to our reputation. Shortcomings in our supply and procurement process could negatively affect our product portfolio, revenues and profits. As a fully integrated ICT service provider, we cooperate with a wide range of different suppliers for technical components and assemblies, as well as for software and other goods and information important to the conduct of our business. Although we do not believe that we are materially dependent on any single supplier, disruptions in our chain of supply could negatively affect our product portfolio, cost structure, revenues and profits. We take a variety of measures to shelter ourselves from these risks, but we cannot be sure that these measures will be effective under all circumstances. We are continuously involved in disputes and litigation with regulators, competitors and other parties. The ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings is generally uncertain. When finally concluded, they may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous risks relating to legal and regulatory proceedings, in which we are currently a party or which could develop in the future. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently unpredictable. Legal or regulatory proceedings in which we are or come to be involved (or settlements thereof) may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For information concerning some of the litigation in which we are involved, including with respect to the Toll Collect consortium, see "Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings." For information concerning our regulatory environment, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation." Future sales of our shares by the Federal Republic or KfW (Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau) may adversely affect the trading prices of our shares and ADSs. Continuing its privatization policy, the Federal Republic (which owns, together with the KfW, approximately 37.5% of our outstanding shares) has announced that it intends to further reduce its holdings of equity interests in the future, including shares in Deutsche Telekom AG. The reduction in 14 the Federal Republic's direct or indirect holdings may involve KfW. For shareholders, there is a danger that the sale of a significant volume of our shares by either the Federal Republic or KfW, or speculation to this effect on the markets, could have a negative impact on the price of our shares and ADSs. Exchange-rate and interest-rate risks have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our revenue development. We are exposed to currency risks related to our international business activities. Generally, our Central Treasury hedges currency risks that may have a negative impact on our cash flows, although there can be no guarantee that our hedging strategies will succeed. Currency risks may have a negative impact on our results of operations when amounts in local currencies are translated into euros, particularly in connection with U.S. dollar- and British pound sterling-denominated results. For more information with respect to the impact of exchange rates and currency translation, see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Consolidated Results of Operations." We are also exposed to interest-rate risks, primarily in the euro, U.S. dollar and British pound sterling currencies. Interest-rate risks arise as a result of fluctuations in interest rates affecting the level of interest payments due on indebtedness at variable rates in each of these currencies. Once per year, our Management Board (Vorstand) specifies ratios of fixed and variable debt in these three currencies. Our Central Treasury then takes measures, using derivative instruments and other measures, to implement the interest-risk management decisions of the Management Board. For more information about our hedging activities and interest-rate and market risks, see "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Developments in the telecommunications sector have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of certain of our assets. We review on a regular basis the value of each of our subsidiaries and their assets. In addition to our regular annual valuations, whenever indications exist (due to changes in the economic, regulatory, business or political environment) that goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets may be impaired, we consider the necessity of performing certain valuation tests, which may result in impairment charges. The recognition of impairments of tangible, intangible and financial assets could cause us to take large, non-cash charges against net profit, which could lead to a reduction in the trading price of our shares and ADSs. For more information, see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates." Identification of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses as a result of our implementation of procedures designed to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our securities. Commencing with our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2006, we will include a report from our management relating to its evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a consequence of systems and procedures currently being reviewed and implemented to comply with these requirements, we may uncover circumstances that may be determined to be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, or that may otherwise result in disclosable conditions. Although we intend to take prompt measures to remediate any such identified significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control structure, measures of this kind may involve significant effort and expense, and any disclosure of such significant deficiencies, material weakness or other disclosable conditions may result in a negative market reaction. 15 