Risk Factors” discussion in Item 3, the “Management Overview” discussion in Item 5 and the “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” discussion in Item 11, in particular, contain numerous forward-looking statements, although such statements also appear elsewhere in this Annual Report. 1 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections. You should consider them with caution. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement in light of new information or future events. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. We caution you that a number of important factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others: • changes in general economic and business conditions, including the significant economic decline currently underway, in the markets in which we and our subsidiaries and associated companies operate; • the level of demand for telecommunications services in the markets we serve, particularly for wireless telecommunications services, broadband access lines, voice and data traffic, new higher-value products and services, and new rate offerings; • changes in government policies and new legislation; • regulatory developments and changes, including with respect to the levels of tariffs, terms of interconnection, customer access and international settlement arrangements; • our ability to secure and retain the licenses needed to offer new and existing services and the cost of these licenses and related network infrastructure build-outs, particularly with respect to advanced services; • competitive forces, including pricing pressures, technological developments and alternative routing developments, all of which affect our ability to gain or retain market share and revenues in the face of competition from existing and new market entrants; • the effects of our customer acquisition and retention initiatives, particularly in the fixed-line voice telephony business, the mobile telecommunications business and our interconnection business; • the effects of industry consolidation on the markets in which we operate, particularly with respect to our mobile and leased lines businesses; • the success of new business, operating and financial initiatives, many of which involve substantial start-up costs and are untested, and of new systems and applications, particularly with regard to the integration of service offerings; • our ability to achieve cost savings and realize productivity improvements, particularly with respect to our workforce-reduction initiatives, while at the same time enhancing customer service quality; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly in view of our cost reduction efforts; • concerns over health risks associated with the use of wireless mobile devices and other health and safety risks related to radio frequency emissions; • risks of infrastructure failures or damage due to external factors, including natural disasters, intentional wrongdoing, sabotage, acts of terrorism or similar events; • the outcome of litigation, disputes and investigations in which we are involved or may become involved; • risks and uncertainties relating to the benefits anticipated from our international expansion, including in the United States; • risks and costs associated with integrating our acquired businesses and with selling or combining businesses or other assets; • the progress of our domestic and international investments, joint ventures, partnerships and alliances; • the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, particularly in connection with subsidiaries operating outside the euro zone; • ongoing instability and volatility in worldwide financial markets; • the availability, terms and deployment of capital, particularly in view of our financing alternatives, actions of the rating agencies, developments in the banking sector and the impact of regulatory and competitive developments on our capital outlays; and • the level of demand in the market for our debt obligations, and for the debt obligations of our subsidiaries and associated companies, and our shares, as well as for assets that we may decide to sell, which may affect our financing and acquisition strategies. Certain of these factors are discussed in more detail elsewhere in this Annual Report, including, without limitation, in Item 3, Item 4 and Item 5. We caution investors that the foregoing list of important factors is not exhaustive. When reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this document, investors and others should carefully consider the foregoing factors, as well as other uncertainties and events and their potential impact on our operations and businesses. Certain information in this Annual Report has been provided by external sources. Due to the rapid changes in our industry, it is possible that some of this information is no longer accurate. Assessments of market share in particular involve the use of information released or estimated by regulatory authorities, our competitors, third parties or us. World Wide Web addresses contained in this Annual Report are for explanatory purposes only and they (and the content contained therein) do not form a part of, and are not incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisors Not applicable. ITEM 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Not applicable. ITEM 3. Key Information SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents selected consolidated financial and operating information. This selected consolidated financial and operating information should be read together with “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The selected consolidated financial information as of and for each of the five years ended December 31, 2004 through 2008 are extracted or derived from our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, which have been audited by Ernst & Young AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Steuerberatungsgesellschaft (“E&Y”) and PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (“PwC”). 3 Table of Contents Selected Consolidated Financial Data of the Deutsche Telekom Group % Change 2008/2007(1)(2) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (billions of €, except as otherwise indicated) Income Statement Data Net revenues (1.4 ) 61.7 62.5 61.3 59.6 57.3 Domestic (5.9 ) 28.9 30.7 32.4 34.2 34.7 International 3.0 32.8 31.8 28.9 25.4 22.6 Profit from operations 33.2 7.0 5.3 5.3 7.6 6.3 Net profit n.m. 1.5 0.6 3.2 5.6 1.6 Balance Sheet Data Total assets 2.0 123.1 120.7 130.2 128.5 125.5 Total financial liabilities (in accordance with the consolidated balance sheet) 8.6 46.6 42.9 46.5 46.7 51.1 Shareholders’ equity (4.7 ) 43.1 45.2 49.7 48.6 45.5 Cash Flow Data(3) Net cash from operating activities 12.1 15.4 13.7 14.2 15.1 16.7 Net cash used in investing activities (41.3 ) (11.4 ) (8.1 ) (14.3 ) (10.1 ) (4.5 ) Net cash used in financing activities 49.4 (3.1 ) (6.1 ) (2.1 ) (8.0 ) (12.9 ) Ratios and Selected Data Additions to intangible assets (including goodwill) and property, plant and equipment 11.5 10.1 9.1 13.4 11.1 6.6 Capital expenditures(3) 8.6 8.7 8.0 11.8 9.3 6.4 Number of employees averaged over the year (full-time employees excluding trainees) (thousands) (3.6 ) 235 244 248 244 248 Revenues per employee (thousands of euro)(4) 2.4 262.5 256.5 246.9 244.3 231.7 Earnings per share/ADS—basic and diluted (euro)(5) n.m. 0.34 0.13 0.74 1.31 0.39 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (basic) (millions) 0.0 4,340 4,339 4,353 4,335 4,323 Total number of ordinary shares at the reporting date (millions) 0.0 4,361 4,361 4,361 4,198 4,198 Dividend per share/ADS (euro)(5)(6) 0.0 0.78 0.78 0.72 0.72 0.62 Dividend per share/ADS (U.S. dollar)(5)(6)(7) (9.9 ) 1.09 1.21 0.98 0.91 0.80 n.m.—not meaningful (1) Percentage change based on figures expressed in millions. (2) In this Annual Report, increases in the size of negative numbers are expressed in percentage terms with negative percentage amounts, and decreases in the size of negative numbers are expressed with positive percentage amounts. (3) In accordance with the statement of cash flows. (4) Calculated on the basis of the average number of employees for the year, excluding trainees, apprentices and student interns. (5) “ADS” refers to the Deutsche Telekom American Depositary Shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). One ADS corresponds to one ordinary share of Deutsche Telekom AG. (6) Dividends per share are presented on the basis of the year in respect of which they are declared, not the year in which they are paid. The proposed 2008 dividend per share amounts are subject to approval by the shareholders at the annual shareholders’ meeting. (7) Dividend amounts have been translated into U.S. dollars (using exchange rates published by the European Central Bank) for the relevant dividend payment date, which occurred during the second quarter of the following year, except for the 2008 amount, which has been translated using the applicable rate on December 31, 2008. As a result, the actual U.S. dollar amount at the time of payment may vary from the amount shown here. 4 Table of Contents Exchange Rates Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts in this Annual Report are expressed in euros. As used in this document, “euro,” “EUR” or “€” means the single unified currency that was introduced in the Federal Republic and ten other participating Member States of the European Union on January 1, 1999. “U.S. dollar,” “USD” or “$” means the lawful currency of the United States. “pound sterling” or “GBP” means the lawful currency of the United Kingdom. So that you may more easily ascertain how the trends in our financial results might have appeared had they been expressed in U.S. dollars, the following table shows, for the periods indicated, the average, high and low exchange rates for euros, expressed in U.S. dollars per EUR 1.00, as published by the European Central Bank: Year or Month Average (1) High Low (in $ per €) 2004 1.2462 2005 1.2380 2006 1.2630 2007 1.3797 2008 1.4726 2008 August - 1.5574 1.4598 September - 1.4731 1.3934 October - 1.4081 1.2460 November - 1.2935 1.2525 December - 1.4616 1.2608 2009 January - 1.3866 1.2795 February (through February 26) - 1.3008 1.2591 (1) The average of the exchange rates on the last business day of each month during the relevant period. On February 26, 2009, the exchange rate was USD 1.2782 per EUR 1.00. Our shares trade on German stock exchanges, including the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, in euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the euro price of the shares on the German stock exchanges and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange. When we declare cash dividends, they are declared in euros, and exchange rate fluctuations affect the U.S. dollar amounts you would receive if you are a holder of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) evidencing ADSs upon conversion of cash dividends on the shares represented by your ADSs. 5 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, investors in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below. Our financial condition or results of operations, or the trading prices of our securities, could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion contains a number of forward-looking statements. Please refer to the “Forward-Looking Statements” discussion at the front of this Annual Report for cautionary information. An economic downturn, a substantial slowdown in economic growth or deterioration in consumer spending could adversely affect our customers’ purchases of our products and services in each of our operating segments, which could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our business is influenced by general economic conditions in Germany, Europe and the United States. The economic outlook for 2009 has worsened significantly, including in our largest markets, Germany and the United States, and the global economic recession appears set to continue for some time. Further deterioration in the economic environment could have an adverse effect on the level of demand by our individual customers for our products and services and the willingness of our business customers to invest in information and communications technology (ICT). This could, in turn, jeopardize the attainment of our growth targets, such as those relating to multimedia services in mobile telecommunications, or those relating to broadband products and services based on digital subscriber line (DSL) technology. Because we operate in heavily regulated business environments, decisions that regulatory authorities impose on us restrict flexibility in managing our business and may force us to offer services to competitors, or reduce the prices we charge for our products and services, either of which could have a material negative impact on our revenues, profits and market shares. Unlike many of our competitors, we are subject to strict regulation in many market segments in Germany and Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe, particularly with respect to the fixed-line network business of our Broadband/Fixed Network operating segment. Government agencies regularly intervene in the offerings and in the pricing of our fixed-line products and services. Regulation can impede our ability to grow and to react to the initiatives of competitors and technological change. At the European Union level, the framework for telecommunications regulation is currently under review. In 2007, the European Commission issued proposals to amend the current framework, which are expected to be adopted in May 2009. Whether the regulatory framework will increase or decrease the regulatory burden on us will depend on the final changes adopted by the European Union, the manner in which revised directives are subsequently implemented in the E.U. Member States, and how the revised regulatory framework will be applied by the respective National Regulatory Authorities. In addition to the review of the regulatory framework, the European Commission recently proposed draft recommendations on the future regulatory treatment of fixed and mobile termination rates and regulated access to Next Generation Access Networks (NGA), such as access to new and existing ducts, civil engineering structures and other elements which are not active and necessary for the roll-out of fiber-based telecommunications infrastructure. The objectives of these recommendations are to cut the fees that mobile and fixed-line operators charge for terminating each other’s calls, and to regulate fiber-based telecommunications infrastructure and access. These recommendations are expected to be adopted during 2009. Depending on the final formulation, these recommendations could have substantial negative effects on our business and pricing flexibility and, as a result, could affect our revenues and profits. Access and price regulation apply primarily to telecommunications services that are considered to involve an operator with “significant market power.” We have been designated an operator with significant market power in most fixed-line markets in which we operate, including in Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, Croatia and Greece. The German telecommunications regulatory framework implemented by the Federal Network Agency (Bundesnetzagentur) has an especially significant impact on our domestic business. So far, we have been exempted from regulation on the basis of a loss of significant market power in markets of relatively minor importance only, such as the market for fixed-line international calls. Additionally, since we are offering mobile and fixed-line triple-play services (“triple-play” includes high-speed Internet access, communications services and entertainment offerings), media regulation may become increasingly important to our business. This regulation might restrict our ability to provide media services, including the delivery of content, and could also result in additional costs for technical implementation measures needed to comply with increased regulation. 6 Table of Contents Mobile Communications Regulatory authorities supervise our mobile telecommunications operations in the countries in which we operate. We expect a tightening of regulatory control in the area of mobile telecommunications, with a probable negative effect on pricing and revenues, for example as a result of further reductions in international roaming charges for the wholesale and retail voice market, international data and SMS roaming charges, call termination charges and possible access regulation in some markets. In Europe, national regulatory authorities and various E.U. bodies have the power to regulate based on market investigations or reviews. With respect to international roaming charges for the wholesale and retail voice market, a European Union-wide regulation, valid until June 2010, is presently in place. However, in September 2008, the European Commission had proposed prolonging this regulation until 2013 and expanding it to SMS and data roaming services as of July 2009. The proposal mandates price caps for wholesale data roaming tariffs and additional transparency measures. This expansion of existing regulation would have a negative effect on our roaming revenues. Mobile call termination charges are also subject to regulatory measures in T-Mobile’s markets that can have a negative effect on revenues. Various reviews of call termination rates and court proceedings relating to regulatory measures are pending in several of T-Mobile’s markets. The European Commission is currently considering a recommendation with a definition of acceptable costs. The proposal will, in the long run, reduce the cost basis for the price calculation of mobile termination charges. Our telecommunications systems and operations in the United States are regulated primarily by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and by various other federal, state and local governmental bodies. These governmental agencies may also exercise jurisdiction over mobile telecommunications operators. Some U.S. states have taken actions to regulate various aspects of wireless operations including customer billing, termination of service arrangements and advertising. Any of those agencies could adopt regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we may be subject to sanctions, which may have an adverse effect on our mobile telecommunications business in the United States. For further information regarding the matters discussed above and other aspects of the regulatory environments to which our businesses are subject, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation” and “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Broadband/Fixed Network We believe that, for the foreseeable future, the Federal Network Agency is likely to consider us a provider with significant market power in various German markets for public voice telephony services in the fixed-line network and in other markets, including most of those in which we held monopoly rights in the past. As a result, we expect that the strict regulatory provisions of the German Telecommunications Act relating to providers with significant market power will continue to be applied to our activities in those markets. Considering that in many markets our competitors are unlikely to gain significant market power in the near future, we expect that we will have to compete in important markets with providers not subject to these regulatory obligations. Therefore, these competitors may be expected to have more flexibility than we have in terms of the types of services offered and customers served, pricing and the granting of network access. We are required to offer an Internet Protocol (IP) Bitstream Access product in the wholesale-market and are therefore required to offer unbundled broadband access to competitors since April 2008. Unbundled broadband access for our competitors expands competition in the access business, currently focused on metropolitan areas, to all regions in Germany. It is possible that the Federal Network Agency may decrease the existing nationwide regulation for IP Bitstream Access by following the model of other European regulatory authorities. We expect a decision from the Federal Network Agency in the first quarter of 2009. Regulatory authorities may choose to classify our entry into new markets as extensions of our existing services and subject such new businesses to regulation instead of considering it an unregulated new product offering. For example, our triple-play offerings using DSL technology over our new 50 Mbit/s high-speed fiber-optic network (VDSL) may be viewed by the Federal Network Agency as an extension of our prior double-play and triple-play service offerings, which were based on ADSL2+ technology. This could subject our VDSL technology-based product offerings to extensive regulation in Germany. According to a regulatory order, we must grant access to competitors to ducts or, alternatively, to dark fiber cable. The replication of VDSL products, in particular by our competitors using their own infrastructures, is therefore being made easier at our expense. This will have a negative impact on our revenue generation, even if we offer our competitors a VDSL product on a voluntary basis. Our fixed-line subsidiaries in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe are subject to regulatory provisions and risks that are similar to those affecting our fixed-line operations in Germany. The business impact of increased regulation on our subsidiaries in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe will depend on the way in which national regulatory authorities use their powers, and the extent to which our competitors take advantage of regulatory decisions designed to foster increased competition. 7 Table of Contents Further market analysis procedures under the E.U. regulatory framework have been carried out in Hungary throughout 2008. In this context, an obligation to offer wholesale unbundled ADSL at regulated prices was introduced and the monthly fees of local loop unbundling, shared access and local bitstream access were substantially reduced. The second round of market analysis in Slovakia has begun and is expected to continue until the end of 2010. It is likely that additional regulatory obligations will be imposed upon Slovak Telekom as a result of this market analysis. These developments could also contribute to a loss of our market shares in specific product markets in these countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. For further information regarding the matters discussed above and other aspects of the regulatory environments to which our businesses are subject, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation” and “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We face intense competition in all areas of our business, which could lead to reduced prices for our products and services and a decrease in market share in certain service areas, thereby adversely affecting our revenues and net profit. Mobile Communications In the United States, each of T-Mobile USA’s three main national competitors—AT&T, Verizon Wireless and Sprint/Nextel—is significantly larger than T-Mobile USA. Their scale could afford them significant structural and competitive advantages in this market. This situation presents T-Mobile USA with a long-term challenge to compete effectively in terms of pricing, products, coverage and the introduction of new technologies and services. Intense competition from various regional and other small national operators also exists in T-Mobile USA’s markets. In addition to traditional competitors, the entrance and influence of non-wireless carriers, such as cable providers, could cause further pressure on the wireless industry and T-Mobile USA (e.g. by offering bundled services T-Mobile USA does not provide). Since T-Mobile USA is a significant contributor to our overall revenues and customer growth, a slowdown or decline in the business of T-Mobile USA could have a material adverse effect on the attainment of the growth targets and profitability of our Group as a whole. Competition in the European mobile telecommunications markets has increased and can be expected to increase further in the future. Growing competition results, in part, from the market entry of low cost carriers, such as mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs), which use the networks of other operators at volume discounts, and from market consolidation. If prices for mobile telecommunications services decline more than anticipated and this decline is not compensated for by higher usage, T-Mobile may not achieve its objectives. In addition, mobile network operators’ expansion of product offerings into the fixed-line sector may result in a competitive disadvantage for T-Mobile in countries in which T-Mobile offers only mobile communications services. Moreover, technologies such as W-LAN, WiMax and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), which can be used with existing hardware and platforms, could result in the diversion of voice and data traffic from T-Mobile’s network, which could lead to significant price and revenue reductions. As European markets have become increasingly saturated, the focus of competition has been shifting from customer acquisition to customer retention, and increasing the quality and value of existing customers. Accordingly, if we are unable to offer increased quality and better value to our customers, our market share and revenues may not grow as we have anticipated in our plans. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Mobile Communications.” Broadband/Fixed Network In Germany, and to a lesser extent in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe, fixed-line network voice telephony service revenues and prices have continued to decline, primarily due to intense competition and adverse decisions imposed by the national regulation authorities, and also due to customers’ ongoing substitution of mobile telecommunications and VoIP services for fixed-line usage. Due to competitive pressures from cable operators, mobile operators and fixed-line carriers, we continued to lose market share in 2008. We expect a further increase in competition from cable operators, in particular, offerings of product bundles for telephone and broadband access lines, which are increasingly offered in more regions throughout Germany as well as in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe. Furthermore, the switch of mobile operators’ focus from pure mobile services towards fixed-line offerings, regulatory actions by the Federal Network Agency and the increasing quality and acceptance of VoIP services will increase pressure on our market shares, revenues and margins. Additional local and regional network operators are expanding their presence to include other major cities and regions. In the future, we could face even fiercer competition and lose further market share if our competitors were to combine their businesses. Existing mobile substitution effects are intensified by the proliferation of MVNOs. Reduced prices for mobile telecommunications services (e.g., on the basis of lower flat rates without call-based charges and regulatory decisions regarding mobile telephony termination rates) could further increase pricing pressure on our fixed-line services. Furthermore, mobile operators are increasingly engaging in reselling DSL product bundles provided by other fixed-line operators, and this continues to have an adverse effect on our fixed-line network revenues. 8 Table of Contents The German and European markets for Internet access and portal services, especially within the broadband market, have been, and will continue to be, highly competitive and are increasingly saturated. Prices for broadband flat rates have been steadily declining. Broadband/Fixed Network’s future competitive position will be affected by pricing, network speed and reliability, services offered, customer support and its ability to be technologically adept and innovative. The regulatory environment can also exert a significant influence on the level of competition. We expect that our competitors will continue to pursue new broadband customers aggressively. In the market for portal services and content, competition is also intense due to low barriers to entry. In addition, a weaker economy may increase pressure on our revenues and margins in these markets. Furthermore, recent regulatory decisions have required us to offer to our competitors an IP Bitstream Access product, which enables our competitors to expand their operations throughout Germany without building their own infrastructure. Part of the challenge for our Broadband/Fixed Network operating segment continues to be the improvement of its reputation for customer service while implementing cost-saving measures. If we do not continue to improve our customer service sustainably, there is a risk that we might not stop our overall continuing loss of fixed-network customers in the German market. Each of these developments is expected to continue to erode our market shares and to decrease our revenues and profit margins. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Broadband/Fixed Network” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” Business Customers Our Business Customers operating segment, operated through our T-Systems unit, is a provider of solutions covering the entire ICT value chain. It is subject to risks associated with the general and regional economies of its customers and the willingness and ability of its customers to invest in information and communications technology services and products. The ICT market is shaped by long sales cycles, severe competition and declining prices. The result is downward pressure on revenues and margins, which has been exacerbated by the current global economic crisis. The international growth potential of T-Systems may be constrained by its limited brand recognition in some national markets, at least compared to that of competitors who may be more established there, particularly as this relates to maintaining and increasing business with multinational companies outside of Germany. T-Systems was strategically realigned to prepare for future market developments. This realignment involved reassigning around 6,300 employees and 160,000 business customers from the T-Systems' Business Services unit to the T-Home business unit of Broadband/Fixed Network. As a result, T-Systems will, beginning in 2009, focus solely on the ICT solution business with our approximately 400 national and international key accounts, and will also be the first point of contact for public- and health care sector customers. An additional strategic element was the conclusion of an alliance with U.S.-based Cognizant, a leading global IT and business process outsourcing provider. The success of this partnership depends on whether we succeed in developing our cooperation into a global delivery network. If the various initiatives introduced by T-Systems are not successful, T-Systems may lose market share to its competitors, suffer reduced revenues and incur losses. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Business Customers.” We may realize neither the expected level of demand for our products and services, nor the expected level or timing of revenues generated by those products and services, as a result of lack of market acceptance, technological change or delays from suppliers, which could adversely affect our cash flows. There is a risk that we will not succeed in making customers sufficiently aware of existing and future value-added services or in creating customer acceptance of these services at the prices we would want to charge. There is also a risk that we will not identify trends correctly, or that we will not be able to bring new services to market as quickly or price-competitively as our competitors. These risks exist, in particular, with respect to our anticipated future growth drivers in the mobile telecommunications area such as mobile data services or other advanced technologies (which are boosted by new products such as the iPhone and the T-Mobile G1 phone) and in the fixed-line telecommunications area (e.g., triple-play services). Some of our investments (e.g., new spectrum licenses) to develop future products and services may involve substantial cash outlays with no certainty of market acceptance or regulatory non-interference. Accordingly, there is a risk that the return on our investments, in particular in spectrum licenses and network infrastructure, may be negatively affected. In addition to the negative impact on our cash flows, this could result in significant write-downs of the value of spectrum or other licenses or other network-related investments. Under the product name “Entertain”, we provide our customers in Germany with comprehensive triple-play offerings. The market acceptance for these new products and services could be negatively affected by an unwillingness to pay for additional features. Since the content and technology of the product are very complex, it may prove difficult to convey an understanding of the product’s benefits to our customers via our traditional sales channels. In addition, some of our competitors offer similar or pared-down products. These factors could lead to a potential reduction of the perceived value of “Entertain” to our customers with adverse effects on our pricing models, revenues and profit margins. 9 Table of Contents Further, as a result of rapid technological progress, and the trend towards technological convergence, there is a danger that new and established information and telecommunications technologies or products may not only fail to complement one another, but in some cases may even substitute for one another. An example of this is VoIP, a technology that is already established in the business customer market. VoIP has now reached the consumer market as well and, as a technology that competes directly with traditional fixed-line telephony services, has the potential to reduce further our market share and revenues in our fixed-line business. The introduction of mobile handsets with VoIP functionality may also adversely affect our pricing structures and market share in our mobile voice telephony business. If we do not appropriately anticipate the demand for new technologies, and adapt our strategies and cost structures accordingly, we may be unable to compete effectively, with the result that our business activities, financial condition and results may suffer. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business.” Failure to achieve our planned reduction and restructuring of personnel or our human resources-related cost-savings goals could negatively affect the achievement of our financial objectives and our profitability. Following the successful completion of a large-scale staff reduction program, which led to around 32,000 employees leaving the Group between 2006 and 2008, staff restructuring remains a challenge for us. Additional measures include a severance program at T-Systems, which began in November 2008, as well as employment management measures aiming at placing civil servant employees with public-sector employers. The successful realization of our ongoing staff reduction program depends on a range of factors that are beyond our control, such as the continued successful sale of non-core businesses, general developments in the labor market, the demand for our retrained labor force, and the level of acceptance of the various severance offers and other voluntary reduction measures. If the planned staff reduction targets are not achieved, this would have a negative effect on our operating expenses and profitability. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Description of Business—Group Headquarters and Shared Services” and “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations—Other Employees.” As a result of dispositions of certain non-core businesses in Germany, there is an increased risk of return of civil servants transferred out of the Group, which could have a negative impact on our staff and cost reduction objectives. Our employees who have civil servant status can, based on German civil service law, only be completely transferred to the buyer of a business from us in exceptional cases. Therefore, as a general matter, such transferred civil servants are placed on leave of absence while employed with the transferred business unit. Accordingly, in the event of termination of employment with the transferred business unit, there is a risk that such civil servants will return to the Deutsche Telekom Group. This risk of return can be reduced by an agreement on compensation payments, but it cannot be completely eliminated. As of December 31, 2008, the total number of civil servants that can avail themselves of this right of return to the Deutsche Telekom Group was approximately 4,200, which represented a considerable increase over the 2007 year-end figure, chiefly as a result of the sale of DeTe Immobilien. If further Group units employing civil servants are disposed of, the risk of civil servants returning after the end of their temporary leave may further increase. For further information regarding civil servants and general human resources-related matters, see “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees and Labor Relations.” Alleged health risks of wireless communications devices have led to litigation affecting T-Mobile, and could lead to decreased wireless communications usage or increased difficulty in obtaining sites for base stations and, thus, adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our wireless services business. Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless mobile devices and cell sites may raise various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Research and studies are ongoing. The World Health Organization has indicated that it will address precautionary recommendations for public policy in its Radio Frequency Environmental Health Criteria in 2010 or 2011. However, on the basis of current scientific knowledge, there are no known adverse effects on health below the international threshold standards. We cannot provide assurance that research in the future will not establish links between radio frequency emissions and health risks. Whether or not such research or studies conclude there is a link between radio frequency emissions and health, popular concerns about radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of wireless devices and may result in significant restrictions on the location and operation of T-Mobile’s cell sites and the usage of T-Home’s wireless devices, telephones or products using wireless technology. Such restrictions on use could have material adverse effects on our results of operations. T-Mobile USA is subject to current and potential litigation relating to these health concerns. Several class action and individual lawsuits have been filed in the United States against T-Mobile USA and several other wireless service operators and wireless telephone manufacturers, asserting products liability, breach of warranty and other claims relating to radio frequency transmissions to and from wireless mobile devices. The complaints seek substantial monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. To date, the cases filed against T-Mobile USA have been dismissed by the trial courts, although one class action case is pending on appeal. The defense of lawsuits alleging adverse health effects from wireless telephone use may divert management’s attention, and T-Mobile USA may be required to pay significant awards or settlements and incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. 10 Table of Contents We do not know whether legislators, regulators or private litigants will refrain from taking other actions adverse to us, based on the purported health-related risks associated with radio frequency emissions. Any such litigation, legislation or adverse actions may result in additional costs and loss of revenues in our mobile communications businesses. For more information, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We continuously engage in large-scale programs to reshape our information technology (IT) infrastructure to adapt to changing customer needs and organizational requirements. Failure to effectively plan and monitor these activities could lead to misallocations of resources and impaired processes with negative consequences for our operations. The “Next Generation IT (NG IT)” project was launched in 2008 as a Group-wide framework for all IT-related components of our transformation programs and the development of our future overall IT architecture. It partly replaces and shapes further the “IT 2010” initiative previously disclosed. The NG IT project is focused on the Group’s IT at all architectural levels, including IT infrastructure, applications and data and systems. Group-wide sub-projects work on preparing, for example, a joint product data model, comprehensive customer relationship management (CRM) applications, and an improved IT support for our finance, human resources and procurement functions. Due to the enormous complexity of the implementation of this IT initiative, malfunctions, connectivity issues, implementation delays, and other unforeseen problems, could result in costly process impairments and remediation, and possible extended down-times of IT processes, and therefore frustrate the attainment of our goals in terms of cost savings and quality improvements. One of our most important IT programs deals with the long-term development and implementation of a comprehensive IP platform that will support both fixed-line and mobile telephony services. This means that the traditional platform will be completely replaced by an IP-based system. Upon implementing this joint IP platform, we will be subject to risks inherent in all IT systems connected to the Internet, such as hacker attacks, “spam calls” and other disruptions. These risks could lead to a temporary interruption of our IT resources and, as a result, impair the performance of our technical infrastructure. System failures due to natural or man-made disruptions and loss of data could result in reduced user traffic and reduced revenues and could harm our reputation and results. Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure for fixed-line network services and mobile telecommunications services) and data may be damaged or disrupted by fire, lightning, flooding and other calamities, technology failures, human error, terrorist attacks, hacker attacks and malicious actions (e.g., theft or misuse of customer data), and other similar events. We attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a large number of measures, including backup systems and protective systems such as firewalls, virus scanners, and building security. We cannot, however, be certain that these measures will be effective under all circumstances, and that disruptions or damages will not occur. Damage or disruption to our infrastructure may result in reduced user traffic and revenues, increased costs, and damage to our reputation. Shortcomings in our supply and procurement process could negatively affect our product portfolio, revenues and profits. As a fully integrated ICT service provider, we cooperate with a wide range of different suppliers for technical components and assemblies, as well as for software and other goods and information important to the conduct of our business. Although we do not believe that we are materially dependent on any single supplier, our contractors may want to extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages or changing business and product strategies. Furthermore, our vendors may be subject to litigation with respect to technology that is important for the conduct of our business. Especially in times of economic turmoil, supply chains and credit access of our vendors may be negatively affected, which could disturb our commercial relationship with them. If our commercial partners fail to deliver quality products and services in a timely manner, the ensuing disruptions in our chain of supply could negatively affect our product portfolio, cost structure, revenues and profits. We take a variety of measures to shelter ourselves from these risks, but we cannot be sure that these measures will be effective under all circumstances. We are continuously involved in disputes and litigation with regulators, competition authorities, competitors and other parties. The ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings is generally uncertain. When finally concluded, they may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous risks relating to legal and regulatory proceedings, in which we are currently a party or which could develop in the future. Litigation and regulatory proceedings, including patent infringement lawsuits, are inherently unpredictable. Legal or regulatory proceedings in which we are or come to be involved (or settlements thereof) may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For information concerning some of the litigation in which we are involved, including with respect to Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa Sp. z o.o. (“PTC”) and Toll Collect, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” For information concerning our regulatory environment, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” 11 Table of Contents We face allegations of data misuse and flaws in our security systems. Despite diverse measures taken to protect customer data, damage to our reputation remains a significant risk, which may also affect our business. The Bonn public prosecutor's office is still investigating the circumstances surrounding the illegal monitoring of phone calls and the theft of data relating to several million mobile customers. As a result of these events, we implemented several measures to further improve data security and transparency, including the creation of a new Management Board position relating to data privacy, compliance and legal affairs, which has the right to veto Mangement Board business decisions related to data privacy. A progress report prepared by the Group Privacy Officer will be published every year on a voluntary basis from the first quarter of 2009 and submitted to the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and our Supervisory Board. A newly established Data Privacy Advisory Board will advise our Management Board on all issues related to data privacy. The Advisory Board will closely consult with leading data privacy experts from outside the Group with regard to the handling of customer and employee data, data privacy audits, IT security and the consequences of the introduction of new legal provisions. Additionally, we established a dedicated website to keep the public informed of ongoing developments in this area. However, there can be no assurance that the current investigations will not result in the imposition of additional remedial measures or that further breaches relating to our customer data will not materialize in the future. Future sales of our shares by the Federal Republic or KfW Bankengruppe (“KfW”) may adversely affect the trading prices of our shares and ADSs. The Federal Republic (which, together with KfW, owns approximately 31.7% of our outstanding shares) has previously indicated an intent to continue with its privatization policy. In this regard, we cannot predict if and when the Federal Republic will further reduce its holdings of its equity interest in Deutsche Telekom AG. The reduction in the Federal Republic’s direct or indirect holdings may involve KfW. For shareholders, there is a danger that the market offering of a significant volume of our shares by either the Federal Republic or KfW, or speculation to this effect on the markets, could have a negative impact on the price of our shares and ADSs. Certain of KfW’s debt instruments are exchangeable into shares of Deutsche Telekom AG, which, upon exchange, could also have a negative impact on the price of our shares. KfW issued a class of exchangeable bonds on May 16, 2008 that matures in June 2013. Exchangeable bonds are debt securities that the holder may exchange for shares in another company during a predefined period and at a predefined price. When the exchange price is exceeded and when the holder exercises the exchange right, KfW will be obligated to exchange the bonds offered for Deutsche Telekom AG shares. When the exchangeable bonds mature in June 2013, KfW has the right to settle them in Deutsche Telekom AG shares. These exchangeable bonds in the aggregate amount of EUR 3.3 billion have a share exchange price of EUR 14.9341 per ordinary share. Accordingly, approximately 221 million shares may be delivered by KfW in exchange for the outstanding bonds maturing in June 2013. The delivery to debtholders by KfW of a significant amount of our shares could have a negative impact on the market price of our shares. Unexpected difficulties related to the integration of the OTE Group or other acquired entities could adversely affect our business and profits. In 2008, we acquired a 25 % plus one share stake in the Greek telecommunications company Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. (“OTE”), Greece’s leading provider of fixed-line voice telephony and internet access services. Through its subsidiaries, OTE also provides fixed-line voice telephony and internet access services in Romania and mobile telecommunications services in Greece, Albania, Bulgaria and Romania. In connection with these transactions, we became a party to a shareholders’ agreement with the Hellenic Republic (“HR”), pursuant to which we have assumed management control of OTE and have therefore consolidated OTE beginning in February 2009. With this acquisition, we have expanded and strengthened our presence in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe. In addition, we expect to realize significant synergies, including with regard to the procurement of infrastructure equipment and terminal devices. Any significant problem in integrating and harmonizing networks, operations, product offerings, personnel, standards, procedures and controls of these or other acquired companies with our own may have material adverse effects on our results of operations and our ability to improve our market position as anticipated. Exchange-rate, interest-rate and rating risks have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our revenue and cost development. We are exposed to currency risks related to our international business activities. Generally, our Central Treasury seeks to hedge currency risks that may have a negative impact on our cash flows, although there can be no guarantee that our hedging strategies will succeed. Currency risks may have a negative impact on our results of operations when amounts in local currencies are translated into euros, particularly in connection with U.S. dollar- and pound sterling-denominated results. For more information with respect to the impact of exchange rates and currency translation, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Consolidated Results of Operations.” 12 Table of Contents We are also exposed to interest-rate risks, primarily in the euro, U.S. dollar and pound sterling currencies. Interest-rate risks arise as a result of fluctuations in interest rates affecting the level of interest payments due on indebtedness at variable rates in each of these currencies. Once per year, our Management Board specifies ratios of fixed and variable debt in these three currencies. Our Central Treasury then takes measures, using derivative instruments and other measures, to implement the interest-risk management decisions of the Management Board. For more information about our hedging activities and interest-rate and market risks, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” In 2008, Standard & Poors and Moody's Investors Service changed our long-term rating from A- and A3, respectively, to BBB+ and Baa1, respectively, with a stable outlook. Fitch Ratings maintained our long-term rating at A- with a negative outlook. The downgrade by Standard & Poors and Moody’s resulted in an increase in the interest rates on certain of our bonds and also increased our cash outlays for interest. A further decrease in our credit ratings below certain thresholds by various rating agencies would result in an increase in interest rates due to step-up provisions in certain other bonds and medium-term notes and could raise the cost of our debt refinancing activities generally. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Resources – Step-up Provisions.” The continued volatility and disruption of worldwide financial markets may make it more diffcult for us to raise capital externally, which could have a negative effect on our business plans and financing objectives. During 2008, capital and credit markets around the world experienced severe and prolonged volatility and disruption. We believe that new issuances of our debt securities will, in the short term, be subject to smaller volumes and that we will experience decreased market access due to fewer market participants and anxiety relating to the current climate for corporate bonds. Furthermore, banking institutions that are the subject of divestiture or merger, or that are in distress, may restrict the availability of capital to customers, including customers that have existing credit facilities. Banks may be unwilling to renew expiring credit facilities or to extend them on the same terms. In some cases, financial institutions may be unable or unwilling to honor their commitments, particularly if they fail. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Developments in the telecommunications sector have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of certain of our assets. We review on a regular basis the value of each of our subsidiaries and their assets. In addition to our regular annual impairment reviews, whenever indications exist that goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets may be impaired due to changes in the economic, regulatory, business or political environment, we consider the necessity of performing certain valuation tests, which may result in impairment charges. The recognition of impairments of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and financial assets could cause us to take large, non-cash charges against net profit, which could lead to a reduction in the trading price of our shares and ADSs. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates.” Potential breaches of compliance requirements or the identification of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on our corporate reputation, financial condition and the trading price of our securities. In general, compliance requirements for publicly traded companies and, in particular, the investigation of potential breaches and corporate misconduct are increasing and leading to major financial implications for the companies concerned. At the same time, the legal framework governing the monitoring of companies is becoming more comprehensive, which increases the liability risks for executive bodies and associated costs. While we believe that we have established an appropriate compliance organization to detect, assess, reduce and manage these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks and their related consequences will continue to exist. Although we intend to take prompt measures to remediate any identified shortcomings in our internal controls over financial reporting, activities of this kind may involve significant effort and expense, and disclosure of any failures, material weakness or other conditions, may result in a deterioration of our corporate image and negative market reactions. For more information with regard to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, see “Item 15.Controls and Procedures – (b) Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” 13 Table of Contents 