Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Our subsidiary is primarily regulated by the FDIC and the Kentucky Office of Financial Institutions. Our compliance with Federal Reserve Board, FDIC and Kentucky banking regulations is costly. A failure to comply with the banking regulations may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to the capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects our business and financial results, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably and a failure to comply could limit our ability to implement our business strategy. See the caption entitled "Regulatory Matters" included in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report, which is Part II, Item 7 of this report, for further information. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow. We have grown rapidly in terms of branch expansion, total assets, net loans, and deposits. We may not be able to continue to grow at the same rate that we have grown in the past. We currently serve our customers through a network of eight banking offices, consisting of two full-service banking locations in Louisville, Kentucky, and one full-service banking location in each of New Albany, Jeffersonville, and Clarksville, Indiana. We also have one full-service banking location in Harrodsburg, Kentucky, Lawrenceburg, Kentucky, and Marengo, Indiana. Our business strategy calls for continued expansion and the opening of additional branches during the next three to five years. We have not yet attempted to establish branches in any of the other counties in Kentucky or southern Indiana. Our branch expansion strategy entails other risks, including: o the entrance into new markets where we lack experience; o the experience of unexpected competition; o the introduction of new products and services into our business with which we have no prior experience; o the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices; o the ability to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes and our reporting systems and procedures; o the ability to manage a growing number of client relationships; o the ability to recruit and retain additional experienced bankers to accommodate growth; o the ability to maintain controls and procedures sufficient to accommodate an increase in expected loan volume andinfrastructure; o the diversion of our management's attention from our existing businesses as a result of our growth strategy; o the additional expenditures our asset growth may require to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure; and o the ability to maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms. The occurrence of any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to overcome the risks associated with growth or any other problems encountered in executing our growth strategy. Our recent results do not indicate our future results, and may not provide guidance to assess the risk of an investment in our common stock. We are unlikely to sustain our historical rate of growth, and may not even be able to expand our business at all. Further, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, we may not have the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we are not able to successfully grow and expand our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business would be harmed if we lost the services of any of our senior management team and are unable to recruit or retain suitable replacements. We believe that our success to date and our prospects for future success depend significantly on the efforts of our senior management team, which includes N. William White, our President and Chief Executive Officer, R. Michael Wilbourn, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Gregory A. DeMuth, our Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer of the Bank, David M. Hall, our Executive Vice President-Retail Banking of the Bank, Kathy L. Beach, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, Alan D. Shepard, our Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of the Bank and certain of our senior bankers. We have $0.5 million of key-man life insurance on both Mr. White and Mr. Wilbourn. There is no assurance, however, that $0.5 million would be enough to compensate us for the loss of Mr. White or Mr. Wilbourn. We do not have key-man insurance on any other officer of the Company or the Bank. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, these persons provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is based. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in our market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. Additionally, a slowdown in real estate activity in the markets we serve may also negatively impact our financial condition. An economic downturn, either nationally or in the local market area, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a change in the housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of available wholesale deposits. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if the prevailing local or national economic conditions are unfavorable, our business strategy may not succeed. A weakening of the employment market in our primary market area could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans. Further, the banking industry is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, interest rates, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. Our cost of funds for banking operations may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. In the past, the Bank has relied heavily on brokered certificates of deposits and borrowings for the funds necessary for banking operations. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than brokered certificates of deposit or borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for brokered certificates of deposit or borrowings. Our business strategy includes funding more of our operations with deposits; however, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able attract sufficient deposits. Competition from other financial institutions and others may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business generally, and because of its desirability and the opportunities for growth, the Louisville, Kentucky and southern Indiana market area in particular, is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market area and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions to make loans and to attract new customers and in pricing loans and deposits. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions and can offer customers more attractive pricing terms. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size. We also compete with private lenders, mezzanine and venture capital firms and angel investors in some of our lending divisions, including our community redevelopment lending and mezzanine financing divisions. Many of these competitors are subject to minimal or no regulation and may be able to make accommodations for customers that we are unable to make. We are currently subject to claims regarding the merger of Independence Bancorp with Harrodsburg First Financial Bancorp, Inc. that could result in substantial defense, judgment or settlement costs. On or about May 28, 2004, a complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Anderson County in the Commonwealth of Kentucky by Larry Sutherland, Judy Sutherland, John Henry Disponett, Brenda Disponett, Todd Hyatt, Lois Ann Disponett, Sue Saufley, and Hugh Coomer. Soon thereafter, an amended complaint was filed which added Lois Hawkins and Norma K. Barnett as plaintiffs. The lawsuit arises from offers to purchase securities made by us in connection with an offer to purchase up to 300,000 shares of our stock in a tender offer on or about May 28, 2003. The Plaintiffs allege that we made certain material misrepresentations in connection with certain statements made in the tender offer. The Plaintiffs are seeking to recover compensatory and punitive damages in connection with the shares they sold in the tender offer and their attorneys' fees. On April 14, 2006 a partial summary judgment was entered against the plaintiffs. In the partial summary judgment, the Circuit Court held that the only remedy available to the plaintiffs is the return of the stock upon the tender of the consideration received by the Plaintiffs in exchange for the stock. Subsequent to the partial summary judgment, the plaintiffs amended their complaint to allege certain additional material misrepresentations had been made by the Company. This matter is currently scheduled for trial in July 2007. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in this litigation, it may have a negative effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Industry Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, and thus subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Consequently, our results of operations can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risk. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationship between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in interest rate spread. In addition to affecting our profitability, changes in interest rates can impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. A discussion of how we measure our exposure to interest rate changes is provided in Part II, Item 7 of this report. We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors or related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses, so we cannot assure you that our loan loss allowance will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results timely and accurately and on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm regarding their opinion of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based upon their audit. We are required to complete our initial assessment by the filing of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and to obtain the opinion of our independent registered public accounting firm by the filing of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. During the course of our assessment, we may identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet this deadline. A failure to maintain adequate internal controls may result in material misstatements in our financial statements and a failure to meet our reporting obligations. As a result investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price could decline. Our operations could be interrupted if our network or computer systems fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems and network infrastructure could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could result in a loss of customers and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Additional growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our current capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise capital when needed, our ability to implement our business strategy could be materially impaired. Our stock price may fluctuate and be volatile. The prices at which our common stock has traded may not be indicative of future market prices. The trading price of our common stock has, in the past, and could continue in the future to fluctuate significantly. Volatility in our stock price could result from the following factors, among others: o variations in quarterly operating results; o changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; o the operating and stock price performance of other companies in the banking industry; and o general stock market or economic conditions. The stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of affected companies. Our ability to pay dividends is limited, and we may be unable to pay future dividends if we decide to do so. Our ability to continue our current dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions, by the bank's ability to pay dividends to us based on its capital position and profitability, and by our need to maintain sufficient capital to support the bank's operations. The ability of the bank to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If the bank does not satisfy these regulatory requirements it will be unable to pay dividends to us and we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock to you. The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. As of December 31, 2006 we had $9.3 million of trust preferred securities outstanding. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. We have the right to defer payment of interest on the junior subordinated debentures for a period not exceeding 20 consecutive quarters. If we defer, or fail to make, interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures, we will be prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from paying cash dividends on our common stock until we pay all deferred interest and resume interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures. We have implemented anti-takeover devices that could make it more difficult for another company to purchase us, even though such a purchase may increase shareholder value. In many cases, shareholders would receive a premium for their shares if we were purchased by another company. However, state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws make it difficult for anyone to purchase us without approval of our board of directors. For example, our articles of incorporation divide the board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms with approximately one-third of the board of directors elected at each annual meeting of shareholders. The classification of directors makes it more difficult for shareholders to change the composition of the board of directors. As a result, at least two annual meetings of shareholders would be required for the shareholders to change a majority of the directors, whether or not a change in the board of directors would be beneficial and whether or not a majority of shareholders believe that such a change would be desirable. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that in no event shall any record owner of any outstanding common stock which is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by a person who beneficially owns in excess of 10% of the then outstanding shares of common stock be entitled or permitted to any vote with respect to the shares held in excess of the 10% limit. Consequently, a takeover attempt may prove difficult, and shareholders may not realize the highest possible price for their securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 