Item 1A. Risk Factors Dependence on Key Customer. In 2005, 2004, and 2003 one customer, Guitar Center Inc., accounted for approximately 16%, 12% and 12%, respectively, of our net sales revenues. We anticipate that this customer will continue to represent a significant portion of our sales however, the customer is not obligated to continue purchasing products from us. Were our relationship with this customer to deteriorate for any reason we could lose a significant portion of our net sales revenues, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 5 Liquidity and Debt Obligations. Under the terms of our U.S. credit agreements, we must maintain certain financial covenants and ratios and must maintain adequate levels of eligible collateral to support our borrowing level. The agreements also provide, among other matters, restrictions on additional financing, dividends, mergers, acquisitions, and an annual capital expenditure limit. The covenants in these credit agreements may restrict our operations. If we are unable to generate adequate levels of sales and operating profit, our lenders could declare us to be in default of our obligations. If we are in default, there is no assurance that the lenders would grant waivers or agree to restructure our debt or that we would be able to attain other financing. If we default on our debt, our lenders have a variety of remedies against us including accelerating all amounts so that they come due immediately and foreclosing on their security interests, which would allow the creditors to take possession of all of our assets. Moreover, our debt obligations are largely cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one of the agreements causes a default against each other credit agreement. In such instances, if we cannot obtain alternate financing in a very short period of time, we may have to suspend or discontinue our operations, liquidate our assets or take other measures that would result in a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Our line of credit accrues interest based on variable short-term interest rates. Increases in the prime rate or LIBOR would increase our interest expense, which would adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Competition. Our industry is highly competitive, and we face competition from a number of well-known brands including Yamaha, Harman-Kardon, Peavey and Fender. Many of our competitors are substantially better capitalized and have substantially stronger market presence than we have. We also expect increasing competition from both established and emerging companies. Competition may have the effects of reducing the prices we can charge for our products, increasing our marketing costs associated with developing and maintaining our market niche, or reducing the demand for our products. If we fail to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition, our profitability and financial performance will be adversely affected, and those effects may be material. Acquisitions and Business Combinations. We have acquired businesses in the past, and we may do so in the future. We may pursue additional acquisitions of complementary technologies or product lines. Further acquisitions may include risks of entering markets where we have no or limited prior experience, the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company, and impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. Further acquisitions may also impact our financial position. For example, we may use significant cash or incur additional debt, which would weaken our financial position. We cannot guarantee that future acquisitions will improve our business or operating results. Variability in Quarterly Operating Results. Our operating results tend to vary from quarter to quarter. Revenue in each quarter is substantially dependent on orders received within that quarter as well as product availability. Conversely, our expenditures are based on investment plans and estimates of future revenues. We may, therefore, be unable to quickly reduce spending if revenues decline in a given quarter. As a result, operating results for such quarters would be adversely impaired. Results of operations for any one quarter is not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Other factors which may cause quarterly results to fluctuate include: • increased competition in niche markets; • timing of new product announcements; • product releases and pricing changes by us or our competitors; 6 • market acceptance or delays in the introduction of new products; • production constraints; • the timing of significant orders; • customers’ budgets; and • foreign currency exchange rates. It is likely in some quarters our operating results will be adversely affected by these factors. Rapid Technological Change. Product technology evolves rapidly, making timely product innovation essential to success in the marketplace. The introduction of products with improved technologies or features may render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our products do not perform well, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Also, new products may contain defects or errors which could cause the products to fail to gain market acceptance. Product Liability. Some of our products, such as amplifiers, speakers and sound mixers, are electronically powered and carry a risk of electrical shock or fire. These and other products create a risk that our customers or third parties may bring claims that our products have caused property damage, physical injury or death. In extreme cases these claims may be asserted as class actions, contending that such products brought harm to large numbers of people. These types of litigation, if threatened or brought, may be costly and may distract management’s attention from operating our business, whether or not we ultimately are adjudged to be liable and whether or not we settle such an action. Dependence on Suppliers. Certain parts used in our products are currently available from either a single supplier or from a limited number of suppliers. If we cannot develop alternative sources of these components, or if we experience deterioration in our relationship with these suppliers, there may be delays or reductions in product introductions or shipments, which may materially adversely affect our operating results. Because we rely on a small number of suppliers for certain parts, we are subject to possible price increases by these suppliers. Also, we may be unable to accurately forecast our production schedule. If we underestimate our production schedule, suppliers may be unable to meet our demand for components. This delay in the supply of key components may materially adversely affect our business. Use of Third Party Distribution Centers. We store and ship the majority of our products from our Woodinville, Washington and St. Louis, Missouri locations. In addition, we utilize third party distribution centers in Europe and Asia. These distribution centers may encounter personnel issues, business disruptions, information systems outages or other disruptions, which may not be remedied quickly, resulting in delays in shipments of our products. Failure to maintain adequate systems and internal controls at these facilities could result in customer shipments being delayed or otherwise improperly transacted, potentially resulting in lost revenue, products or customers. Use of Contract Manufacturers. The majority of our products are manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. Third-party manufacturing creates additional risks including: • reduction in control of the manufacturing process; • longer lead times for transitions of newly released products from engineering to full release; • lead times for transitions of existing products to new third party manufacturers; • reduced flexibility in reacting to demand changes; • increased transportation cost and delivery times; 7 • fluctuations in currency exchange rates (specifically the “floating” currency rate in China); • delays or inability to source parts on reasonable payment terms; and • concentration of production by certain key manufacturers. Manufacturing in China. Our ability to import products from China at current tariff levels could be materially and adversely affected if the “normal trade relations” (“NTR”, formerly “most favored nation”) status the United States government has granted to China for trade and tariff purposes is terminated. As a result of its NTR status, China receives the same favorable tariff treatment that the United States extends to its other “normal” trading partners. China’s NTR status, coupled with its membership in the World Trade Organization, could eventually reduce barriers to manufacturing products in and exporting products from China. However, we cannot provide any assurance that China’s WTO membership or NTR status will not change. International Operations. We have significant net sales to customers outside the United States and believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. International sales may fluctuate due to various factors, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and taxes; • increases in freight costs, or damage or loss in shipment; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer average payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • product safety and other certification requirements; and • political and economic instability, wars and terrorist activity. Sales Regulations. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations and standards defined by the Federal Communications Commission, the Consumer Products Safety Commission and Underwriters’ Laboratories. Internationally, our products may be required to comply with regulations or standards established by telecommunications authorities in the countries into which we sell our products, as well as various multinational or extranational bodies. Recent environmental legislation in the European Union may increase our costs of doing business internationally as we comply with and implement these new requirements. The European Union, or EU, has issued a directive on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment, known as RoHs, and has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directive applicable to persons who import electrical or electronic equipment into Europe. Although neither of these directives is applicable to our products as of the date of this report, both are expected to become effective in 2006. We are currently implementing measures to comply with each of these directives as individual EU nations adopt their implementation guidelines. Although we believe our products are currently in compliance with domestic and international standards and regulations in countries to which we export, we can offer no assurances that our existing and future product offerings will remain compliant with evolving standards and regulations. If we fail to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certification, we may be unable to sell our products into jurisdictions to which these standards apply, which may prevent us from sustaining our revenues or maintaining profitability. Protection of Intellectual Property. We have a strong interest in protecting the intellectual property assets that reflect original research, creative development, and product development. As such, we have sought protection through patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. Along with extensive trademark and patent registration and filings, we have claimed copyright protection for works of original authorship, including product brochures, literature, advertisement, and web pages. While certain legal 8 rights of enforceability are available to us, there can be no assurance as to the ability to successfully prevent others from infringing upon our intellectual property. We have never conducted a comprehensive patent search relating to the technology used in our products, however, we believe that our products do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance, however, that others will not assert infringement claims against us in the future or that those claims, if brought, will not be successful. While we pursue patent, trademark and copyright protection for products and various marks, we also rely on the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, development partners and contract manufacturers to protect our trade secrets, proprietary information and other intellectual property. There can be no assurance, however, that these confidentiality agreements will be honored or will be effective in protecting our trade secrets, proprietary information and other intellectual property. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our future success will depend in a large part on the continued service of many of our technical, marketing, sales and management personnel and on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. Our employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. The loss of the services of key personnel or the inability to attract new personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Restructured Sales Force. In early 2006, we decided to eliminate our relationship with independent representatives in the United States and Canada who sell Mackie and TAPCO brands, and instead use an existing domestic employee sales force that had, and will continue to, sell existing St. Louis Music brands. Our independent representatives have had strong relationships with our distributors and retailers, and if our new sales force is unable to continue and grow these relationships, sales could be negatively affected. 