ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Vancocin sales represent a significant portion of our revenue and a decrease in sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If revenue from Vancocin materially declines, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed because sales of Vancocin represented approximately 53 percent of our revenue in 2011. In addition, to the extent that revenue from Vancocin materially declines prior to Cinryze, Buccolam, and Plenadren achieving significant commercial success in Europe, our financial condition and results of operations may be further harmed because sales of Cinryze in the U.S. may be our only other material source of revenue for the next two years. Vancocin product sales could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • the development and approval of competitive generic versions of oral Vancocin, approval of products which are currently marketed for other indications by other companies or new pharmaceuticals and technological advances to treat the conditions addressed by Vancocin; • manufacturing or supply interruptions which could impair our ability to acquire an adequate supply of Vancocin to meet demand for the product; • changes in the prescribing or procedural practices of physicians in the areas of infectious disease, gastroenterology and internal medicine, including prescribing of other competitive products; • decreases in the rate of infections for which Vancocin is prescribed; • the level and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • decrease in the sensitivity of the relevant bacterium to Vancocin; • changes in terms required by wholesalers, including “fee-for-service” contracts; • marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors; • our ability to maintain all necessary contracts or obtain all necessary rights under applicable federal and state rules and regulations; • the approval of legislative proposals that would authorize re-importation of Vancocin into the United States from other countries; • regulatory action by the FDA and other government regulatory agencies; • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third-party payors or retail pharmacies; and • product liability claims. Revenues from the sale of Vancocin may not remain at or above current levels or achieve the level of net product sales that we expect. We believe the rate of infections for which Vancocin is prescribed decreased during the second half of 2007 and remained flat or declined during the period of 2008 to 2011. A decrease in sales of Vancocin could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we are unable to continue to successfully commercialize Cinryze in the United States, or are delayed in our efforts to commercialize Cinryze in Europe and additional territories, our business will be materially harmed. The FDA approved Cinryze for routine prophylaxis against angioedema attacks in adolescent and adult patients with hereditary angioedema on October 10, 2008. In June 2011, the European Commission granted us Centralized Marketing Authorization for Cinryze® in adults and adolescents with HAE for routine prevention, 31 Table of Contents pre-procedure prevention and acute treatment of angioedema attacks. The commercial success of Cinryze will depend on several factors, including the following: • the number of patients with HAE that may be treated with Cinryze; • manufacturing or supply interruptions which could impair our ability to acquire an adequate supply of Cinryze to meet demand for the product; • continued acceptance by physicians and patients of Cinryze as a safe and effective treatment; • our ability to effectively market and distribute Cinryze in the United States, Europe and additional territories; • cost effectiveness of HAE treatment using Cinryze; • relative convenience and ease of administration of Cinryze; • potential advantages of Cinryze over alternative treatments; • acceptance and utilization of competitive products; • patients’ ability to obtain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors in the United States and our ability to receive sufficient reimbursement and price approvals that are separately required in each country in Europe; • sufficient supply and reasonable pricing of raw materials necessary to manufacture Cinryze,; and, • our ability to receive regulatory approvals to market Cinryze in territories outside the United States and Europe in the timeframes we anticipate; Sales of Cinryze represented approximately 46 percent of our revenue in 2011. If we are not able to continue to successfully commercialize Cinryze in the United States, Europe and additional territories, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, we our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially impacted. If our efforts to commercialize Buccolam in Europe are delayed or are not as successful as we anticipate, our business will be materially harmed. In September of 2011, the European Commission granted a Centralized Pediatric Use Marketing Authorization (PUMA) for Buccolam, for treatment of prolonged, acute, convulsive seizures in infants, toddlers, children and adolescents, from 3 months to less than 18 years of age. The commercial success of BUCCOLAM will depend on several factors, including the following: • the number of pediatric patients with epilepsy or other prolonged, acute, convulsive seizures that may be treated with BUCCOLAM; • acceptance by physicians and patients of BUCCOLAM as a safe and effective treatment; • our ability to effectively market and distribute BUCCOLAM in Europe; • cost effectiveness of treatment of epilepsy or other prolonged, acute, convulsive seizures using BUCCOLAM; • relative convenience and ease of administration of BUCCOLAM; • potential advantages of BUCCOLAM over alternative treatments; • the timing of the approval of competitive products for the treatment of epilepsy in pediatric patients; • The timing and levels of pricing approvals that are separately required in each country in Europe; and • manufacturing or supply interruptions, including delays in the scale-up of the manufacturing process, which could impair our ability to acquire an adequate supply of BUCCOLAM to meet demand for the product including, without limitation, sufficient supply and reasonable pricing of raw materials necessary to manufacture BUCCOLAM. 32 Table of Contents If we are not able to continue to successfully commercialize BUCCOLAM in Europe, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, we could fail to achieve our estimates for peak year sales for BUCCOLAM and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely impacted. Because the target patient population for Cinryze is small and has not been definitively determined, we must be able to successfully identify HAE patients and maintain a significant market share in order to increase revenue and maintain profitability. The prevalence of HAE patients has not been definitively determined but has been estimated, through market research we have conducted, at up to 11,000 total patients in the United States while the Hereditary Angioedema Association estimates there are 6,500 patients in the United States. Additionally, we believe that HAE affects between 1 in 10,000 and 1 in 50,000 individuals in Europe and other territories worldwide. There can be no guarantee that any of our programs will be effective at identifying HAE patients and the number of HAE patients in the United States or other territories may turn out to be lower than expected or such patients may not be amenable to treatment with Cinryze as not all HAE patients are appropriately treated through routine prophylaxis. Accordingly, our product sales of Cinryze and overall business could be adversely affected if we are unable to identify additional HAE patients to increase revenue and maintain profitability. Our core patent protection for Vancocin has expired, and the FDA may not agree with our belief that Vancocin meets the requirements for three years of exclusivity, which could result in significant competition from generic products and lead to a significant reduction in sales of Vancocin. The last core patent protecting Vancocin expired in 1996. As a result, there is a potential for significant competition from generic products that treat the same conditions addressed by Vancocin. Such competition could result in a significant reduction in sales of Vancocin. We believe that regulatory hurdles (notwithstanding the recent actions taken by the FDA’s Office of Generic Drugs, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (OGD), which are described in more detail below and which we are vigorously opposing), as well as product manufacturing trade secrets, know-how and related non-patent intellectual property, may present barriers to market entry of generic competition. However, these barriers may not actually delay or prevent generic competition. On December 14, 2011, we announced the modernization of labeling for Vancocin Capsules made effective through the FDA’s approval of a supplemental new drug application (sNDA). As a result of the sNDA approval, we believe Vancocin meets the requirements for three years of exclusivity, and that generic vancomycin capsules will not be approved during this period. Under FDA’s regulations, labeling changes based on new clinical investigations that are essential to approval of the sNDA and to which the applicant has exclusive rights may be entitled to three years of exclusivity, and generic drug labeling cannot include information protected by such three-year exclusivity. The FDA may not agree with our position and may determine not to grant exclusivity through listing an exclusivity code for Vancocin in the Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (The Orange Book) Additionally, a generic may seek approval by omitting labeling protected by three-year exclusivity; however, if such omissions render the generic drug less safe or effective, it cannot be approved until the three-year exclusivity expires. We believe that attempting to omit Vancocin labeling changes protected by exclusivity would render generic versions of Vancocin less safe and effective. However, FDA may conclude that the portion of Vancocin’s updated label protected by exclusivity may nonetheless be omitted from the labels of generic products. Ultimately, the decision on a grant of three-year exclusivity and its effect on generic vancomycin capsule approvals resides with the FDA. The effectiveness of these non-patent-related barriers to competition will depend primarily upon the current or future regulatory approval requirements for any generic applicant, the complexities of the manufacturing process for a competitive product, and our ability to protect Vancocin know-how as a trade secret. 33 Table of Contents If Vancocin is not granted three years of exclusivity as a result of FDA approval of the sNDA, generic competitors may take advantage of the absence of patent protection for Vancocin to attempt to develop a competing product. We have become aware of information suggesting that other potential competitors are attempting to develop a competing generic product. For example, multiple generic manufacturers have publicly stated that they have filed to receive product approval and commence a marketing launch of a generic version of oral Vancocin. We are not able to predict the time period in which a generic drug may enter the market, as this timing will be affected by a number of factors, including: • whether an in-vitro method of demonstrating bioequivalence for a locally acting GI drug that has neither been correlated with, nor demonstrated to be predictive of, human in vivo bioavailability data is available to an applicant to gain marketing approval by the FDA in lieu of performing clinical studies; • the nature of any clinical trials which are required, if any; • the timing of filing an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or an ANDA, the amount of time required by the FDA to review the ANDA and whether a generic drug application is afforded an accelerated review by the FDA; • the specific formulation of drug for which approval is being sought; and • the time required to develop appropriate manufacturing procedures. On March 17, 2006, we learned that the OGD changed its approach regarding the conditions that must be met in order for a generic drug applicant to request a waiver of in-vivo bioequivalence testing for vancomycin hydrochloride capsules. Specifically, we were informed that a generic applicant may be able to request such a waiver provided that dissolution testing demonstrates that the test product is rapidly dissolving at certain specified conditions. This deviated from our understanding of OGD’s historical practices which would require, for a poorly-absorbed, locally acting gastrointestinal drug (such as Vancocin) a demonstration of bioequivalence through clinical studies or a demonstration of bioequivalence using an appropriately validated in-vitro methodology. On March 17, 2006, we filed a Petition for Stay of Action with the FDA regarding the requirements for waivers of in-vivo bioequivalence testing for Vancocin, and we have amended that petition several times through additional filings in support of our opposition to any approach that does not require rigorous scientific methods to demonstrate a rate and extent of drug release to the site of action consistent with good medicine and science. In December 2008, the FDA changed OGD’s 2006 bioequivalence recommendation by issuing draft guidance for establishing bioequivalence to Vancocin which would permit generic products that have the same inactive ingredients in the same quantities as Vancocin, or are Q1 and Q2 the same as Vancocin, and that meet certain other conditions, to demonstrate bioequivalence through comparative dissolution testing. Under this latest proposed method, any generic product that is not Q1 and Q2 the same as Vancocin would need to conduct an in vivo study with clinical endpoints to demonstrate bioequivalence with Vancocin. The FDA convened a meeting of its Advisory Committee for Pharmaceutical Science and Clinical Pharmacology to discuss bioequivalence recommendations for oral vancomycin hydrochloride capsule drug products on August 4, 2009. The Advisory Committee was asked if the proposed guidelines are sufficient for establishing bioequivalence for generic vancomycin oral capsules. The Advisory Committee voted unanimously in favor of the component of the proposed OGD recommendation that requires bioequivalence to be demonstrated through comparable dissolution in media of pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8 for potential vancomycin HCl capsule generic products that (a) contain the same active and inactive ingredients in the same amounts as Vancocin HCl capsules; (b) meet currently accepted standards for assay, potency, purity, and stability (equivalent to those in place for Vancocin HCl capsules); and (c) are manufactured according to cGMP. The effectiveness of the non-patent-related barriers to competition will depend primarily upon whether or not FDA confirms the exclusivity the we believe Vancocin qualifies for in connection with our recently approved 34 Table of Contents sNDA, whether or not FDA determines that protected labeling can be omitted from the labels of generic products, the current or future regulatory approval requirements for any generic applicant, the complexities of the manufacturing process for a competitive product, and our ability to protect Vancocin know-how as a trade secret. If FDA’s proposed bioequivalence method for Vancocin becomes effective, and either FDA does not agree that our labeling changes made effective through our sNDA warrant exclusivity, or FDA acknowledges such exclusivity but nonetheless determines that generic products would be no less safe or effective in the absence of such labeling changes, then the time period in which a generic competitor could be approved would be reduced and multiple generics may enter the market. The approval of generic copies of Vancocin would materially impact our operating results, cash flows and possibly intangible asset valuations. This could also result in a reduction to the useful life of the Vancocin-related intangible assets. Management currently believes there are no indicators that would require a change in useful life as management believes that Vancocin will continue to be utilized along with generics that may enter the market, and the number of generics and the timing of their market entry is unknown. We do not have patent protection for the composition of Cinryze or Buccolam and we rely on regulatory exclusivity. The Orphan Drug Act was created to encourage companies to develop therapies for rare diseases by providing incentives for drug development and commercialization. One of the incentives provided by the act is seven years of market exclusivity for the first product in a class licensed for the treatment of a rare disease. HAE is considered to be a rare disease under the Orphan Drug Act, and companies may obtain orphan drug status for therapies that are developed for this indication. The FDA granted Cinryze seven years of marketing exclusivity to Cinryze C1 inhibitor (human) for routine prophylaxis of HAE pursuant to the Orphan Drug Act. The FDA has granted marketing approval of CSL Behring’s product, Berinert® C1-Esterase Inhibitor, Human, for the treatment of acute abdominal or facial attacks of hereditary angioedema and Berinert has received exclusivity pursuant to the Orphan Drug Act. In addition, in the first quarter of 2011, we withdrew our orphan designation in Europe and no longer maintain regulatory exclusivity for Cinryze in Europe. In addition, the EMA and Switzerland have enacted orphan drug legislation and we have received an orphan drug designation under this legislation for Plenadren in the EU, Switerland and the U.S. While the marketing exclusivity of an orphan drug would prevent other sponsors from obtaining approval of the same drug compound for the same indication unless the subsequent sponsors could demonstrate clinical superiority or a market shortage occurs, it would not prevent other sponsors from obtaining approval of the same compound for other indications or the use of other types of drugs for the same use as the orphan drug. In the event we are unable to fill demand for Cinryze, it is possible that the FDA may view such unmet demand as a market shortage which could impact the market exclusivity provided by the Orphan Drug Act. Additionally, the United States Congress has considered, and may consider in the future, legislation that would restrict the duration or scope of the market exclusivity of an orphan drug and, thus, we cannot be sure that the benefits to us of the existing statute will remain in effect. We cannot predict when generic competition for Cinryze may arise, if at all, in Europe. We have received a pediatric-use marketing authorization (PUMA) for Buccolam in Europe. The PUMA is a new type of marketing authorization which may be requested for a medicine which is already authorized, but no longer covered by intellectual property rights, and which will be exclusively developed for use in children. A PUMA provides 10 years of market protection as a reward for the development in children. As the PUMA for Buccolam was the first such approval to be granted, the EMA and EC may interpret the legislation in ways which restrict the duration or scope of the market exclusivity of a PUMA and, thus, we cannot be sure that the benefits to us of the existing statute will remain in effect. We do not know whether Vancocin and Cinryze will continue to be competitive in the markets which they serve. We currently generate revenues from sales of Vancocin in the United States for the treatment of C. difficile-associated diarrhea, or CDAD. Vancocin is also used for the treatment of enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus 35 Table of Contents aureus (including methicillin-resistant strains). . Vancocin sales for the treatment of CDAD decreased in 2009 from the sales achieved in 2008. Vancocin’s share of the United States market for this indication may decrease further due to competitive forces and market dynamics, including an increase in the oral use of intravenous vancomycin or a competing product marketed by Optimer Pharmaceuticals. Metronidazole, a generic product, is regularly prescribed to treat CDAD at costs which are substantially lower than for Vancocin. In addition, products which are currently marketed for other indications by other companies may also be prescribed to treat this indication. Other drugs that are in development by our competitors, including Salix Pharmaceuticals could be found to have competitive advantages over Vancocin. The FDA approved Cinryze for routine prophylaxis against angioedema attacks in adolescent and adult patients with hereditary angioedema on October 10, 2008 and Cinryze became commercially available for prophylaxis against HAE in December 2009. While we are not aware of other companies which are developing a product for the prophylaxis of HAE in the United States, CSL Behring, Shire and Dyax had products approved for the treatment of acute attacks of HAE during 2009, 2010, 2011and 2012 and steroid based products are currently used for prophylaxis of HAE. In addition, Pharming NV is currently developing products for the acute treatment of HAE. Approval of new products, or the expanded use of currently available products, to prophylax or treat HAE, could materially and adversely affect our United States sales of Cinryze. In addition, there are currently several products approved for the acute treatment of HAE in Europe. Even if we are successful in receiving regulatory approval for Cinryze in Europe, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve market share in accordance with our expectations. We depend on single manufacturers for certain components used in Buccolam, Vancocin and Cinryze and the loss of any of these suppliers or any supplier in general would have a negative impact on our operations. We rely on a single supplier of vancomycin, the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) of Vancocin, and also rely on a single manufacturer of Vancocin capsules. Our third party API supplier and finished product supplier are the only manufacturers qualified by the FDA to manufacture API and Vancocin capsule finished product for distribution and sale in the United States. We are therefore dependent upon these suppliers and attempt to maintain Vancocin inventory levels to meet our current projections, plus a reasonable stock in excess of those projections. We rely on a single manufacturer of Cinryze. Pursuant to our distribution agreement, Sanquin Blood Supply Foundation will supply us with certain annual minimum and maximum amounts of CINRYZE. In the event that certain events occur which result in Sanquin permanently ceasing to manufacture Cinryze, Sanquin will grant us a perpetual license under its intellectual property related to the Product and assign to us each of the agreements with such third party manufacturers. In consideration thereof, we will pay a one-time fee to Sanquin as well as a royalty on future sales of products. In the event demand for Cinryze is greater than the amount supplied by Sanquin, we will not be able to meet such demand as there are no other sources of supply of Cinryze available to us. In the event Sanquin permanently ceases to manufacture Cinryze, we will need to find an alternate manufacturer of Cinryze. Currently, to our knowledge, there is only one other commercial supplier of C1 esterase inhibitor and that supplier has recently received marketing approval for their product in the United States. Accordingly, in the event Sanquin permanently ceases to manufacture Cinryze, we cannot be certain that we would be able to locate another willing supplier for our product on the terms we require. There are numerous factors that could cause interruptions in the supply of our products, including regulatory reviews; changes in our sources for manufacturing; or disputes with a manufacturer. Our failure to timely locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed and conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials are magnified when the suppliers are limited in number. Any interruption in the supply of finished products could hinder our ability to timely distribute our products and satisfy customer demand. If we are unable to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our customers’ orders, we may lose those orders, our customers may cancel other orders, and they may choose instead to stock and purchase competing products. Supply 36 Table of Contents interruptions may occur, and our inventory may not always be adequate. This in turn could cause a loss of our market share and negatively affect our revenues. We maintain limited property insurance which would only protect us from physical damage to our assets caused by certain types of occurrences to the extent of the value of the property damaged and would not cover lost revenue. We currently depend, and will in the future continue to depend, on third parties to manufacture raw, intermediate and finished goods for Vancocin, Cinryze, Buccolam and our product candidates. If these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements and the requirements of regulatory authorities, our future revenues may be materially adversely affected. We do not have the internal capability to manufacture quantities of pharmaceutical products to supply our clinical or commercial needs under the current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, or cGMPs, required by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. In order to continue to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, we will need to contract with third parties that have, or otherwise develop, the necessary manufacturing capabilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMPs that are capable of manufacturing our products and product candidates. As such, if we are unable to enter into supply and processing contracts with any of these manufacturers or processors for our development stage product candidates, there may be additional costs and delays in the development and commercialization of these product candidates. For example, Cinryze is a biologic which requires processing steps that are more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals and therefore the third party contracts must have additional technical skills and multiple steps to attempt to control the manufacturing processes. Problems with these manufacturing processes such as equipment malfunctions, facility contamination, labor problems, raw material shortages or contamination, natural disasters, power outages, terrorist activities, or disruptions in the operations of our suppliers and even minor deviations from the normal process, could result in product defects or manufacturing failures that result in lot failures, product recalls, product liability claims and insufficient inventory. If we are required to find an additional or alternative source of supply, there may be additional costs and delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Additionally, the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies routinely inspect manufacturing facilities before approving a new drug application, or NDA, or biologic application, or BLA, for a drug or biologic manufactured at those sites. If any of our manufacturers or processors fails to satisfy regulatory requirements, the approval and eventual commercialization of our products and product candidates may be delayed. For example, in addition to FDA, Sanquin is also subject to the requirements of the European health authorities which may impose on Sanquin obligations relating to facility maintenance and/or equipment modifications that could cause delays in Cinryze production. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a marketed therapy, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. The discovery of previously unknown problems with a therapy or the facility or process used to produce the therapy could prompt a regulatory authority to impose restrictions on us or delay approvals for new products or could cause us to voluntarily adopt restrictions, including withdrawal of one or more of our products or services from the market. In connection with several inspections of two facilities maintained by Sanquin, our contract manufacturer for Cinryze, FDA issued notices of observations on FDA Form 483 for each site. The FDA has also issued two complete response letters regarding Cinryze® (C1 Esterase Inhibitor [Human]) industrial scale manufacturing expansion activities. In the February 2012 letter, the FDA issued comments related to a portion of the cleaning validation for industrial scale manufacturing. The FDA also noted that it has not yet completed the review of our January 2012 updated responses to observations on Form 483 specific to the September 2011 inspection of the Amsterdam facility. Responses to the observations on 483 have been provided to the FDA, however, several of 37 Table of Contents the responses remain the subject of continuing corrective and preventive action procedures. If any of our manufacturers or processors fails to satisfy regulatory requirements, operations at such facility may be halted which could result in our inability to supply product to patients and reduce our revenues. All of our contract manufacturers must comply with the applicable cGMPs, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. If our contract manufacturers do not comply with the applicable cGMPs and other FDA regulatory requirements, we may be subject to product liability claims, the availability of marketed products for sale could be reduced, our product commercialization could be delayed or subject to restrictions, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and may lose potential revenue and we could suffer delays in the progress of clinical trials for products under development. We do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Moreover, while we may choose to manufacture products in the future, we have no experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products for clinical trials or commercial purposes. If we decide to manufacture products, we would be subject to the regulatory requirements described above. In addition, we would require substantial additional capital and would be subject to delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. No matter who manufactures the product, we will be subject to continuing obligations regarding the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. We are taking steps to increase manufacturing capacity for Cinryze, and a failure to increase timely such capacity could limit the rate at which additional new patients will receive Cinryze and will limit the number of doses provided to patients. This would result in a reduction of potential future revenues. Pursuant to our distribution agreement, Sanquin Blood Supply Foundation supplies us with certain annual minimum and maximum amounts of C1 INH. We and Sanquin are undertaking process improvements and facility expansions to increase the capacity of the facilities involved in manufacturing Cinryze. Our efforts to increase manufacturing capacity have included several approaches. First, using the current processing scale equipment, an additional chromatography unit (PCP, or parallel chromatography process) was added which enabled the addition of production shifts to increase manufacturing output. We also are working on industrial scale manufacturing expansion activities. Sanquin must obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for this expansion in order to manufacture Cinryze for us at an increased capacity. In October 2010, the FDA issued a complete response letter regarding the facility to be utilized for the Cinryze industrial scale manufacturing expansion activities. The FDA requested additional information related to both (i) observations at the close of the pre-approval inspection and (ii) review of the technical processes. In February 2012, the FDA issued a second complete response letter which included three comments related to a portion of the cleaning validation for industrial scale manufacturing. We believe that only one of the comments requires additional unplanned activity which can be completed in a relatively short time frame. The FDA also noted that it has not yet completed the review of our January 2012 updated responses to observations on Form 483 specific to the September 2011 inspection of the Amsterdam facility. In order to manufacture Cinryze at the industrial scale we must respond to all FDA questions and satisfactorily complete the FDA review, including providing responses to all open observations on Form 483. While we believe that we will be able to satisfy the comments provided by the FDA in the February 2012 complete response letter in a relatively short time period, we cannot guarantee that the FDA will agree with us in the timeframes we anticipate or at all as biologics such as Cinryze require processing steps that are more complex than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. When the industrial scale processing line is fully staffed and registered with FDA, it will provide additional output. This work is still ongoing and there can be no assurance that the personnel and regulatory review issues associated with this effort can be accomplished in a timely manner. The FDA may view the data regarding our cleaning validation or our responses to observations on Form 483 as insufficient or inconclusive, request additional data, require additional conformance batches, delay any decision past the time frames anticipated by us, or deny the approval of the industrial scale manufacturing process. In addition, delays could arise as a result of many factors, including but not limited to, the availability of necessary equipment, validation of such equipment, the timing of regulatory reviews and approvals. 38 Table of Contents The number of patients enrolling into our treatment support service for patients with HAE and their healthcare providers, CinryzeSolutions, has periodically exceeded our expectations. For example, in 2010 we temporarily limited the rate at which additional patients were started on drug to ensure that those already receiving commercial product continue with a supply of Cinryze until capacity increases. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we reduced the amount of Cinryze inventory held by our distributors and by patients. If our manufacturing capacity expansion projects at Sanquin are delayed, or do not result in the capacity we anticipate, or if Sanquin cannot obtain necessary regulatory approvals for the contemplated facility expansions in the time frames we anticipate, , we may not be able to satisfy patient demand. Additionally, in the event Sanquin is not able to manufacture the anticipated volume of product at the existing scale, as a result of either batch failures, variability in batch yields, required maintenance or other causes, we may not be able to satisfy patient demand. Our inability to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our patient demand may create opportunities for our competitors and we will suffer a loss of potential future revenues. The distribution of our commercial products in the U.S. is dependent upon a limited number of third party service providers and disruptions in these relationships could result in our failure to achieve the sales of our products that we expected. We rely on a single third party to provide all necessary distribution and logistics services with respect to our sales of Vancocin and Cinryze, including warehousing of finished product, accounts receivable management, billing, collection and recordkeeping. The third party logistics service provider stores and distributes Vancocin from two warehouses located in the central United States and western United States and Cinryze from one of these warehouses. A disaster occurring at or near these facilities could materially and adversely impact our ability to supply Vancocin and Cinryze to our distribution partners, which would result in a reduction in revenues from sales. Approximately 95 percent of our Vancocin sales are to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers. If any of these wholesalers ceases to purchase our product for any reason, then unless and until the remaining wholesalers increase their purchases of Vancocin or alternative distribution channels are established: • our commercial operations could be significantly disrupted; • the availability of our products to patients could be disrupted; and • we may not achieve the sales of our products that we expected, which could decrease our revenues and potentially affect our ability to maintain profitability. Additionally, we do not require collateral from our wholesalers but rather maintain credit limits and as a result we have an exposure to credit risk in our accounts receivable. The highest account receivable during 2011 we experienced from any one wholesaler was approximately $25.0 million and we anticipate that this amount could increase if Vancocin sales increase. While we have experienced prompt payment by wholesalers and have not had any defaults on payments owed, a default by a large wholesaler could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have entered into agreements with two specialty distributors / specialty pharmacies that distribute Cinryze to physicians, hospitals, pharmacies, home health providers and patients. If our third party service providers cease to be able to provide us with these services, or do not provide these services in a timely or professional manner, it could significantly disrupt our commercial operations, and may result in our not achieving the sales of Vancocin and Cinryze that we expected. Additionally, any interruption to these services could cause a delay in delivering product to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 39 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain reimbursement for Cinryze from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, Cinryze may be too costly for regular use and our ability to generate revenues would be harmed. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if governmental, private third-party payors and other third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, do not sufficiently defray the cost of Cinryze to the consumer. If these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement for Cinryze or determine to provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, Cinryze may be too costly for general use, and physicians may not prescribe it. Cinryze is significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. Many third-party payors cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payor more expensive for patients, and often require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. Third-party payors may be especially likely to impose these obstacles to coverage for higher-priced drugs such as Cinryze. In addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for our products may also reduce our profitability and worsen our financial condition. In the United States and elsewhere, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. Government and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting and attempting to limit both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. Because Cinryze is too expensive for most patients to afford without sufficient health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize Cinryze may be adversely impacted. Any limitation on the use of Cinryze or any decrease in the price of Cinryze will have a material adverse effect on our business. Even where patients have access to insurance, their insurance co-payment amounts may be too expensive for them to afford. We financially support the HAE financial assistance programs established by Patient Services Incorporated (PSI), which, among other things, assists patients in acquiring drugs such as Cinryze. Organizations such as PSI assist patients who have no insurance coverage for drugs, locate insurance, and also provide financial assistance to patients whose insurance coverage leaves them with prohibitive co-payment amounts or other expensive financial obligations. In addition to assistance from organizations such as PSI, we provide Cinryze without charge for related charitable purposes. We are not able to predict the financial impact of the support we may provide for these and other charitable purposes; however, substantial support could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain profitability. In furtherance of our efforts to facilitate access to Cinryze, we have established the CinryzeSolutions™ program, a treatment support service for patients with HAE and their healthcare providers. CinryzeSolutions personnel provide education about HAE and Cinryze and help facilitate solutions for reimbursement, coverage and access. Although case managers assist patients and healthcare providers in locating and accessing Cinryze, we cannot guarantee a sufficient level of coverage, reimbursement or financial assistance. In European countries where we sell or are seeking or may seek to commercialize Cinryze, pricing, coverage and level of reimbursement of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control. We may be unable to negotiate coverage, pricing, and reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us, or such coverage, pricing, and reimbursement may differ in separate regions in the same country. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country, and we cannot guarantee that we will have the capabilities or resources to successfully conclude the necessary processes and commercialize Cinryze in every or even most countries in which we seek to sell Cinryze. Reimbursement sources are different in each country and in each country may include a combination of distinct potential payers, including private insurance and governmental payers. For example, countries in the European Union may restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for 40 Table of Contents human use. A member state may from time to time approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. Some countries have or may seek to impose limits on the aggregate reimbursement for Cinryze or for the use of Cinryze for certain indications. In such cases, our commercial operations in such countries and our results of operations and our business are and may be adversely affected. Our results of operations may suffer if we are unable to successfully and timely conclude reimbursement, price approval or funding processes and market Cinryze in such foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for Cinryze is limited or reduced. If we are not able to obtain coverage, pricing or reimbursement on terms acceptable to us or at all, or if such terms should change in any foreign countries, we may not be able to or we may determine not to sell Cinryze for one or more indications in such countries, or we could decide to sell Cinryze at a lower than anticipated price in such countries, and our revenues may be adversely affected as a result If supplies of human plasma are interrupted or if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of human plasma to meet demand for Cinryze, our ability to maintain inventory levels could suffer and future revenues may be delayed or reduced. We have relied exclusively and are dependent on certain third party sources to supply human plasma for Cinryze. In connection with our commercial sales of Cinryze and our ongoing and future clinical trials, we will need increased supplies of plasma. We are responsible for obtaining an adequate supply of United States source plasma to meet demand for Cinryze in the United States. Pursuant to our manufacturing and distribution agreement, Sanquin is responsible for providing European plasma for Cinryze sold in the European market. We have a contract for the purchase and sale of plasma with DCI Management Group, LLC, pursuant to which we purchase specified quantities of United States source plasma. Under this agreement, DCI agreed to sell us specified annual quantities of United States source plasma in accordance with applicable good manufacturing practices. In addition to DCI, we entered into a Strategic Supply Agreement with Biotest Pharmaceuticals Corporation (BPC) pursuant to which we will purchase certain quantities of United States source plasma. Our contractual purchase commitments are subject to annual percentage increases based on change in the consumer price index and are subject to other market conditions. BPC has also built three additional plasma centers to support our plasma requirements during the term of the agreement. We have an option to purchase these three plasma centers. We have also made periodic spot purchases of United States source plasma. Plasma markets have historically been subject to price fluctuations as a result of changes in the production capacity available in the industry, the availability and pricing of plasma, development of competing products and the availability of alternative therapies. In addition, some plasma derived products are currently in clinical development for indications, including Alzheimer’s disease, that, if approved, could cause a substantial increase in the demand for, and price of, plasma. In recent years, there has been consolidation in the industry as several plasma derivatives manufacturers have acquired plasma collectors and reduced capacity. As a result, it could be difficult to resolve any significant disruption in the supply of plasma. In addition, concern over the safety of blood products (which has led to increased domestic and foreign regulatory control over the collection and testing of plasma and the disqualification of certain segments of the population from the donor pool), have reduced the potential donor pool. In addition, the EMA requires that all United States human plasma imported into Europe is sourced from plasma collection centers that are approved by a competent European authority, which limits the number of plasma collection centers available for sourcing of United States human plasma and potentially increases the costs. If we are unable to obtain or maintain the level of plasma supply we require, we will need to obtain our supply from other parties in order to satisfy our expected needs. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for plasma may take a substantial amount of time. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining similar supplies from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA or EMA. If we have to switch to a replacement supplier, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of Cinryze could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may decrease sales of Cinryze or result in increased costs. 41 Table of Contents Cinryze is derived from human plasma, and is therefore subject to the risk of biological contamination inherent in plasma-derived products. This risk could adversely affect our ability to obtain raw materials and market our products. Cinryze is derived from donated human plasma. Many disease-causing viruses, bacteria and other pathogens are present in the plasma of infected individuals. If infected individuals donate plasma, the plasma would likely contain those pathogens. As a result, the sourcing of plasma, and the production of products derived from plasma, is regulated extensively by the FDA and other medical product and health care regulatory agencies. We rely on our suppliers to maintain compliance with the regulations promulgated by such agencies. The failure to comply with these regulations or the accidental contamination of plasma could adversely affect our ability to source plasma at commercially reasonable prices. Moreover, public perception about the safety of plasma-derived products could adversely affect the market for our products. Concern over the safety of plasma-derived products, driven in part by past screening failures in the industry and the appearance of infectious agents like HIV, has resulted in the adoption of rigorous screening procedures by regulatory authorities, and screening procedures are likely to become stricter and more complex over time. As screening procedures have become more rigorous, potential donors have been disqualified and other potential donors have been discouraged from donating due to their reluctance to undergo the required screening procedures. Increasingly stringent measures could adversely affect plasma supplies, with a corresponding adverse effect on our ability to obtain raw materials at a commercially acceptable price, or at all. The safety concerns associated with plasma-derived products also affect our ability to market our products. Medical events or studies that raise or substantiate concerns about the safety of our or other similar products would negatively impact public perception of all plasma-derived products and of the plasma donation process. Further, any failure in screening, whether by us or by other manufacturers of these products, could adversely affect our reputation, the support we receive from the medical community and overall demand for our products. If patients using our commercial products suffer injuries, even if unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted and we may be subject to product liability claims, which can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us. The administration of drugs or biologics to humans, whether in clinical trials or after marketing clearance is obtained, can result in product liability claims. Product liability claims can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us. In addition, third party collaborators and licensees may not protect us from product liability claims. We market two commercial products in the US and will market three products in the EU during 2012. As HAE and treatment of adrenal insufficiency are rare disease, we tested Cinryze and Plenadren in only a small number of patients. As more patients use Cinryze and Plenadren, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. Previously unknown risks and adverse effects of our products may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off-label, uses of our products. We are conducting required post approval studies in the US and EU with Cinryze and Plenadren. Clinical evaluations of outcomes of these studies as well as in the post-marketing setting are required to be reported to appropriate regulatory agencies in accordance with relevant regulations. In addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study Cinryze in diseases other than HAE in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. In the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for approved indications and as Cinryze is studied in or used by patients for off-label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of Cinryze, reformulate Cinryze or make changes and obtain new approvals for our and our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities. 42 Table of Contents The discovery of previously unknown risks and side effects of our products could result in a significant drop in the potential sales of our products, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of our products in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. Any of these results could decrease or prevent any sales of our products or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. We may be sued by people who use our products, whether as a prescribed therapy, during a clinical trial, during an investigator initiated study, or otherwise. Any informed consents or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our trials or use our products and product candidates may not protect us from liability or litigation. In addition, negative publicity relating to the use of our products or a product candidate, or to a product liability claim, may make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to market and sell our products. We currently maintain product liability insurance in connection with our clinical development programs and marketed products. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities arising from clinical development or product sales. If we are unable to obtain sufficient levels of insurance at acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to product liability claims. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. In addition, any successful claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable terms. As a result of these factors, a product liability claim, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In order to continue to expand our business and sustain our revenue growth, we will need to acquire additional marketed products or product candidates in clinical development through in-licensing or the acquisitions of businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with us. We may not be able to in-license or acquire suitable products at an acceptable price or at all. In addition, engaging in any in-licensing or acquisitions will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such in-license or acquisition. As part of our long-term strategy and in order to sustain our revenue growth, we intend to seek to acquire or in-license additional marketed products or product candidates in clinical development that treat serious or life threatening illnesses, which treat high unmet medical needs, which require limited commercial infrastructure, and that have the potential to provide both top and bottom line growth. Even if we are able to locate products, product candidates in clinical development or businesses that fit within our strategic focus, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate agreements to acquire or in-license such additional products or product candidates in clinical development on acceptable terms or at all. Further, if we acquire a product, product candidates in clinical development or business, the process of integrating the acquired product, product candidates in clinical development or business may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, such as an acquired product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. We cannot assure you that an acquired product, product candidates in clinical development or business will have the intended effect of helping us to sustain our revenue growth. If we are unable to do so, our business could be materially adversely affected. 43 Table of Contents Our long-term success depends upon our ability to develop, receive regulatory approval for and commercialize drug product candidates and, if we are not successful, our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of products resulting from our product candidates will be limited. All of our drug candidates will require governmental approvals prior to commercialization. Our failure to develop, receive regulatory approvals for and commercialize our development stage product candidates successfully will prevent us from generating revenues from the sale of products resulting from our product candidates. Our product candidates are in the development stage and may not be shown to be safe or effective. Cinryze We are currently evaluating with our partner Sanquin, the feasibility of additional indications and/or other formulations for Cinryze. We plan to initially focus on C-1 mediated diseases affecting transplant patients, including AMR and DGF. We also intend to seek approval to market Cinryze in certain additional territories throughout the world outside of the United States and Europe. Non-toxigenic difficile In February 2006, we entered into a licensing agreement for the rights to develop non-toxigenic strains of C. difficile, or VP20621, for the treatment and prevention of CDAD. We plan to initially focus our efforts on the opportunity to prevent recurrence of CDAD following treatment with antibiotics such as Vancocin. On May 19, 2011 we announced that dosing had begun in the initiation of a Phase 2 dose-ranging clinical study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of VP 20621 for prevention of recurrence of Clostridium difficile infection in adults previously treated for CDAD. We may not be successful in completing the phase 2 study in the time frame we anticipate. Following completion of the phase 2 study, a phase 3 study is planned although the results of the clinical trials may not support further clinical development. VP-20629, or indole-3-propionic acid In September 2011, we entered in to a licensing agreement for the worldwide rights to develop VP-20629, or indole-3-propionic acid for the treatment of Friedreich’s Ataxia (FA), a rare, hereditary, progressive neurodegenerative disease. We expect to initiate a phase 2 study within 12 to 18 months after completion of longer term toxicology studies. We may not be successful in completing the phase 2 study in the time frame we anticipate. Following completion of the phase 2 study, a phase 3 study is planned although the results of the clinical trials may not support further clinical development. We cannot be certain that our efforts and the efforts of our partners regarding our product candidates will lead to commercially viable products. Negative, inconclusive or inconsistent clinical trial results could prevent regulatory approval, increase the cost and timing of regulatory approval, cause us to perform additional studies or to file for a narrower indication than planned. We do not know what the final cost to manufacture product candidates in commercial quantities will be, or the dose required to treat patients and, consequently, what the total cost of goods for a treatment regimen will be. If we are unable to successfully develop our product candidates, we will not have a source of revenue other than Vancocin, Cinryze, Buccolam and Plenadren. Moreover, the failure of one or more of our product candidates in clinical development could harm our ability to raise additional capital. Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. The development of any of our product candidates is subject to many risks, including that: • the product candidate is found to be ineffective or unsafe; • the clinical test results for the product candidate delay or prevent regulatory approval; 44 Table of Contents • the FDA, EMA, or other regulatory authorities forbid us to initiate or continue testing of the product candidates in human clinical trials; • the product candidate cannot be developed into a commercially viable product; • the product candidate is difficult and/or costly to manufacture; • the product candidate later is discovered to cause adverse effects that prevent widespread use, require withdrawal from the market, or serve as the basis for product liability claims; • third party competitors hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing the product candidate; and • third party competitors market a more clinically effective, safer, or more cost-effective product. Even if we believe that the clinical data sufficiently demonstrates the safety and efficacy of a product candidate, regulators may disagree with us, which could delay, limit or prevent the approval of such product candidate. In addition, regulatory approval may take longer than we expect as a result of a number of factors, including failure to qualify for priority review of our application. All statutes and regulations governing the approval of our product candidates are subject to change in the future. These changes may increase the time or cost of regulatory approval, limit approval, or prevent it completely. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval set forth above, as well as additional country-specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, or acquire the rights to additional products which have received regulatory approvals, the later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in adverse consequences, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Approval of a product candidate may be subject to a risk evaluation mitigation strategy may be conditioned upon certain limitations and restrictions as to the drug’s use, or upon the conduct of further studies, and may be subject to continuous review. The regulatory process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of our product candidates. We have a product candidate, VP20621, for the treatment and prevention of CDAD in clinical development. In addition, we are currently evaluating with our partner Sanquin, the feasibility of additional therapeutic uses and potential indications as well as other modes of administration for Cinryze. We expect to conduct clinical studies during 2012 to assess at least one additional therapeutic use of Cinryze as well as continue to study the sub-cutaneous administration of Cinryze. We may also initiate clinical studies for other product candidates, including VP-20629, or indole-3-propionic acid for the treatment of Friedreich’s Ataxia. We must complete significant laboratory, animal and clinical testing on these product candidates before submitting marketing applications in the United States and abroad. The rate of completion of clinical trials depends upon many factors, including the rates of initiation of clinical sites and enrollment of patients. If we are unable to initiate a sufficient number of clinical sites and accrue sufficient clinical patients who are eligible to participate in the trials during the appropriate period, we may need to delay our clinical trials and incur significant additional costs. In addition, the FDA, Independent Safety Monitoring Boards or Institutional Review Boards may require us to delay, restrict, or discontinue our clinical 45 Table of Contents trials on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In addition, we may be unable to submit a NDA to the FDA or marketing petitions to other regulatory authorities such as the EMEA for our product candidates within the time frame we currently expect, or at all. Once an NDA or other form of petition for marketing authority is submitted, it must be approved by the FDA or other regulatory authority before we can commercialize the product described in the application. The cost of human clinical trials varies dramatically based on a number of factors, including: • the number, order and timing of clinical indications pursued; • the number of patients required for enrollment; • the length of time required to enroll these patients; • the costs and difficulty of obtaining clinical supplies of the product candidate; and • the difficulty in obtaining sufficient patient populations and clinicians. Even if we obtain positive preclinical or clinical trial results in initial studies, future clinical trial results may not be similarly positive. As a result, ongoing and contemplated clinical testing, if permitted by governmental authorities, may not demonstrate that a product candidate is safe and effective in the patient population and for the disease indications for which we believe it will be commercially advantageous to market the product. The failure of our clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidate for the desired indications could delay the commercialization of the product. In 2003, Congress enacted the Pediatric Research Equity Act requiring the development and submission of pediatric use data for new drug products. In Europe, a Pediatric Investigational Plan must be agreed before a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) can be submitted. Our failure to obtain these data, or to obtain a deferral of, or exemption from, these requirements could adversely affect our chances of receiving regulatory approval, or could result in regulatory or legal enforcement actions. Healthcare reform could adversely affect our revenue and financial results. Our industry is highly regulated and changes in law may adversely impact our business, operations or financial results. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or PPACA, is a sweeping measure intended to expand healthcare coverage within the United States, primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals and expansion of the Medicaid program. Several provisions of the new law, which have varying effective dates, may affect us and will likely increase certain of our costs. For example, an increase in the Medicaid rebate rate from 15.1% to 23.1% became effective as of January 1, 2010, and the volume of rebated drugs was expanded to include beneficiaries in Medicaid managed care organizations, effective as of March 23, 2010. The PPACA also imposes an annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers which began in 2011, based on the manufacturer’s sale of branded pharmaceuticals and biologics (excluding orphan drugs); expands the 340B drug discount program (excluding orphan drugs) including the creation of new penalties for non-compliance; and includes a 50% discount on brand name drugs for Medicare Part D participants in the coverage gap, or “doughnut hole”. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance also have been added, which may require us to modify our business practices with health care practitioners. In addition, the new law establishes an abbreviated licensure pathway for products that are biosimilar to FDA-approved biological products, such as Cinryze, with provisions covering exclusivity periods and a specific reimbursement methodology for biosimilars. The reforms imposed by the new law will significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry; however, the full effects of the PPACA cannot be known until these provisions are implemented and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and other federal and state agencies issue applicable regulations or guidance. Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact the success of our products. We will continue to evaluate the PPACA, as amended, the implementation of 46 Table of Contents regulations or guidance related to various provisions of the PPACA by federal agencies, as well as trends and changes that may be encouraged by the legislation and that may potentially impact on our business over time. Organizations, states and lawmakers who opposed the passage of PPACA threatened to take legal action against it upon its passage and several court challenges are currently at various stages of development. In addition, there have been several bills introduced in Congress to repeal PPACA. The uncertainty regarding the probability of success of these efforts could cause delays in the implementation of various provisions of PPACA. In the event PPACA is either overturned by a court proceeding or repealed through a legislative process, a disruption in reimbursement of our products may occur. In addition, Federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities are likely to continue efforts to control the price of drugs and reduce overall healthcare costs. These efforts could impact our ability to market products and generate revenues in the United States and foreign countries. Our strategic plan may not achieve the intended results. We made the strategic decision to focus on the development of later stage opportunities by expanding our product portfolio through the acquisition of complementary clinical development stage or commercial product opportunities as a means to accelerate our path toward becoming a profitable pharmaceutical company. As a result of this strategic decision, we substantially discontinued our early stage activities, and do not maintain discovery research or significant internal preclinical development capabilities. We may not be successful in executing our strategy. We may not be able to in-license or acquire suitable products at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, engaging in any in-licensing or acquisition will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such in-license or acquisition. We may need additional financing in order to acquire additional new products or product candidates. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. We cannot assure you that an acquired product, product candidates in clinical development or business will have the intended effect of helping us sustain our revenue growth in the near term or longer term. If we are unable to do so, our business could be materially adversely affected. We depend on collaborations with third parties, which may reduce our product revenues or restrict our ability to commercialize products, and also ties our success to the success of our collaborators. We have entered into, and may in the future enter into additional, sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, development, licensing and other strategic arrangements with third parties. Sales of Cinryze are dependent on distribution rights that we have received from Sanquin pursuant to a distribution agreement relating to the treatment of HAE in the United States and a separate agreement related to other territories. During the term of the agreement, Sanquin will supply us with our commercial requirements for C1 INH for the treatment of HAE in each country where we have received regulatory approval, subject to minimum annual purchase requirements in Euros equal to approximately €26.6 (approximately $34.4 million) million per year, net of the agreed upon discount. In December 2011, we entered into a development and option agreement with Meritage Pharma, Inc. (Meritage) under which we agreed to make certain payments to Meritage to facilitate Meritage’s development of the oral budesonide suspension for the treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis in exchange for an irrevocable option to acquire Meritage. In September 2011, we entered into a license agreement with INS under which we acquired an exclusive worldwide license to develop, manufacture, distribute, market and sell products containing indole-3-propionic acid, or VP-20629. We intend to develop a licensed product containing VP-20629 for the treatment of Friedreich’s Ataxia. 47 Table of Contents In August 2003, we entered into a license agreement with GSK under which we acquired exclusive worldwide rights, excluding Japan, from GSK to develop and commercialize an antiviral compound, maribavir, for the prevention and treatment of CMV infections related to transplant, including solid organ and hematopoietic stem cell bone marrow transplantation, congenital transmission, and in patients with HIV infection. GSK retained the exclusive right to market and sell products covered by these patents and patent applications in Japan. We are currently engaged in additional discussions relating to other arrangements. We cannot be sure that we will be able to enter into any such arrangements with third parties on terms acceptable to us or at all. Third party arrangements may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive marketing rights to one or more products, or may have other terms that are burdensome to us. Our ultimate success may depend upon the success of our collaborators. We have obtained from Sanquin, INS and GSK, and will attempt to obtain in the future, licensed rights to certain proprietary technologies and compounds from other entities, individuals and research institutions, for which we may be obligated to pay license fees, make milestone payments and pay royalties. Our agreement with Meritage requires us to rely upon their efforts to advance the clinical development of OBS. In addition, we may in the future enter into collaborative arrangements for the marketing, sales and distribution of our product candidates, which may require us to share profits or revenues. We may be unable to enter into additional collaborative licensing or other arrangements that it needs to develop and commercialize its drug candidates. Moreover, we may not realize the contemplated benefits from such collaborative licensing or other arrangements. These arrangements may place responsibility on our collaborative partners for preclinical testing, human clinical trials, the preparation and submission of applications for regulatory approval, or for marketing, sales and distribution support for product commercialization. We cannot be certain that any of these parties will fulfill their obligations in a manner consistent with our best interest. These arrangements may also require us to transfer certain material rights or issue our equity securities to corporate partners, licensees or others. Any license or sublicense of our commercial rights may reduce our product revenue. Moreover, we may not derive any revenues or profits from these arrangements. In addition, our current strategic arrangements may not continue and we may be unable to enter into future collaborations. Collaborators may also pursue alternative technologies or drug candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that are in direct competition with us. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Our rights to Cinryze is based upon intellectual property that we have licensed from Sanquin and two of our current product candidates are based on intellectual property that we have licensed from INS and GSK. We depend, and will continue to depend, on these license agreements. All of our license agreements may be terminated if, among other events, we fail to satisfy our obligations as they relate to the development of the particular product candidate. All of our license agreements, other than the agreements with Lilly regarding Vancocin, may also be terminated if we breach that license agreement and do not cure the breach within specified time periods or in the event of our bankruptcy or liquidation. Our agreement with Lilly permits us to suspend the licenses granted to us by Lilly in the event of uncured defaults by us until such time as the default is cured or otherwise resolved. Our agreement with Sanquin includes minimum purchase requirements and our license agreements with INS and GSK impose various obligations on us, including milestone payment requirements and royalties. If we fail to comply with these obligations, Sanquin, INS and GSK may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to market products covered by the license. Disputes may arise with respect to our licensing agreements regarding manufacturing, development and commercialization of any of the particular product candidates. These disputes could lead to delays in or the termination of the development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates or to litigation. 48 Table of Contents Many other entities seek to establish collaborative arrangements for product research and development, or otherwise acquire products, in competition with us. We face competition from large and small companies within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, as well as public and private research organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies in acquiring products and establishing collaborative arrangements for product development. Many of the companies and institutions that compete against us have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities than we have. These entities represent significant competition to us as we seek to expand further our pipeline through the in-license or acquisition of additional products in clinical development, or that are currently on the market. Moreover, while it is not feasible to predict the actual cost of acquiring additional product candidates, that cost could be substantial. We may need additional financing in order to acquire additional new products. There are many potential competitors with respect to our product candidates under development, who may develop products and technologies that make our products and/or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. There are many entities, both public and private, including well-known, large pharmaceutical companies, chemical companies, biotechnology companies and research institutions, engaged in developing pharmaceuticals for applications similar to those targeted by our products under development. In May 2011, FDA approved Optimer Pharmaceuticals’ product, Dificid® (fidaxomicin), for the treatment of CDAD. We are also aware of several product candidates in clinical development which may compete with VP20621. Merck & Co., Inc. licensed a monoclonal antibody developed by Massachusetts Biological Labs which is in Phase II clinical trials for treatment of CDAD. Additionally, SanofiAventis is developing a C. difficile vaccine which is in Phase II studies for the prevention and recurrence of CDAD. Developments by these or other entities may render our product candidates non-competitive or obsolete. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater resources available to them to assist with development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals and product manufacturing and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products more rapidly and more effectively than we do for product candidates. Competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective and less costly than any that we develops and also may prove to be more successful in the manufacturing and marketing of products. Any product that we successfully develop and for which we gain regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Accordingly, important competitive factors, in addition to completion of clinical testing and the receipt of regulatory approval, will include product efficacy, safety, timing and scope of regulatory approvals, availability of supply, marketing and sales capacity, reimbursement coverage, pricing and patent protection. Our products could also be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by regulatory or competitive changes. Any of our future products may not be accepted by the market, which would harm our business and results of operations. Even if our product candidates are approved by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, they may not achieve market acceptance by patients, prescribers and third-party payors. As a result, we may not receive revenues from these products as anticipated. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals, and the scope of marketing and promotion activities permitted by such approvals (e.g., the “label” for the product approved by the FDA); • the availability of third-party reimbursement from payors such as government health programs and private health insurers; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community, such as doctors and hospital administrators, of the clinical safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of drug candidates, as well as their advantages over existing treatment alternatives, if any; 49 Table of Contents • the effectiveness of the sales and marketing force that may be promoting our products; and • the effectiveness of our contract manufacturers. If our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance by a sufficient number of patients, prescribers and third-party payors, our business will be materially adversely affected. Funding, especially on terms acceptable to us, may not be available to meet our future capital needs. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disruptive and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been impacted by significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated market, among other things. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, meeting our capital needs or otherwise taking advantage of business opportunities, such as acquisitions, may become challenging, which could have a material adverse effect on our business plans, revenues and results of operations. Historically, Vancocin has been subject to limitations on the amount of payment and reimbursement available to patients from third party payors. Historically, only a portion of the cost of Vancocin prescriptions has been paid for or reimbursed by managed care organizations, government and other third party payors. This reimbursement policy makes Vancocin less attractive, from a net-cost perspective, to patients and, to a lesser degree, prescribing physicians. For example, metronidazole, a drug frequently prescribed for CDAD, is significantly less expensive than Vancocin. If adequate reimbursement levels are not provided for Vancocin, or if reimbursement policies increasingly favor other products, our market share and net sales could be negatively affected, as could our overall business and financial condition. Our successful commercialization of our product candidates will depend, in part, on the availability and adequacy of third party reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, private health insurers and other organizations. Federal and state regulations govern or influence the reimbursement to health care providers of fees in connection with medical treatment of certain patients. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that could limit the amount that state or federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of drugs. Continued significant changes in the health care system could have a material adverse effect on our business. Decisions by state regulatory agencies, including state pharmacy boards, and/or retail pharmacies may require substitution of generic for branded products, may prefer competitors’ products over our own, and may impair our pricing and thereby constrain our market share and growth. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States could put pressure on the price and usage of our product candidates, which may in turn adversely impact future product sales. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, particularly for indications for which there is no current effective treatment or for which medical care typically is not sought. Adequate third-party coverage may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. If adequate coverage and reimbursement levels are not provided by government and third-party payors for use of our products, our products may fail to achieve market acceptance and we could lose anticipated revenues and experience delayed achievement of profitability. 50 Table of Contents In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in the United States Congress and in some state legislatures that include major changes in the health care system. These proposals have included price or patient reimbursement constraints on medicines and restrictions on access to certain products. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, and it is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting us. The European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices and/or reimbursement of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price or level of reimbursement for the medicinal product, or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. We will need to engage with appropriate authorities on the operational, reimbursement, price approval and funding processes that are separately required in each European country for Cinryze, Buccolam and Plenadren and may not achieve the level of reimbursement anticipated or in the timeframes we anticipate, which could result in lower revenues than we anticipate in certain EU countries. We rely on our employees, consultants, contractors, suppliers, manufacturers and collaborators to keep our trade secrets confidential. We rely on trade secrets, trademarks, and unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing and manufacturing our products in order to protect our significant investment in these products from the risk of discovery by generic drug manufacturers and other potential competition. We require each of our employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, suppliers, manufacturers and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements prohibiting them from taking our proprietary information and technology or from using or disclosing proprietary information to third parties except in specified circumstances. The agreements also provide that all inventions conceived by an employee, consultant or advisor, to the extent appropriate for the services provided during the course of the relationship, are our exclusive property, other than inventions unrelated to us and developed entirely on the individual’s own time. Nevertheless, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets and proprietary know-how if they are used or disclosed. Despite all of the precautions we may take, people who are not parties to confidentiality agreements may obtain access to our trade secrets or know-how. In addition, others may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. We depend on patents and proprietary rights for our products which are in clinical development, which may offer only limited protection against potential infringement, and if we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, we may lose the right to develop, manufacture, market or sell products and lose sources of revenue. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain a strong patent position for our products and technologies in clinical development, both in the United States and in other countries. Litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents, or to protect our trade secrets, and could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. We intend to file applications as appropriate for patents describing the composition of matter of our drug candidates, the proprietary processes for producing such compositions, and the uses of our drug candidates. We own three issued United States patents, one non- United States patents and have a number of pending United States patent applications, some of which we co-own with collaborators. We also have filed international, regional and non- United States national patent applications in order to pursue patent protection in major foreign countries. Many of our scientific and management personnel were previously employed by competing companies. As a result, such companies may allege trade secret violations and similar claims against us. 51 Table of Contents To facilitate development of our proprietary technology base, we may need to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. If we are unable to obtain such licenses, our product development efforts may be delayed. We may collaborate with universities and governmental research organizations which, as a result, may acquire certain rights to any inventions or technical information derived from such collaboration. We may incur substantial costs in asserting any patent rights and in defending suits against us related to intellectual property rights, even if we are ultimately successful. If we are unsuccessful in defending a claim that we have infringed or misappropriated the intellectual property of a third party, we could be required to pay substantial damages, stop using the disputed technology, develop new non-infringing technologies, or obtain one or more licenses from third parties. If we or our licensors seek to enforce our patents, a court may determine that our patents or our licensors’ patents are invalid or unenforceable, or that the defendant’s activity is not covered by the scope of our patents or our licensors’ patents. The United States Patent and Trademark Office or a private party could institute an interference proceeding relating to our patents or patent applications. An opposition or revocation proceeding could be instituted in the patent offices of foreign jurisdictions. An adverse decision in any such proceeding could result in the loss of our rights to a patent or invention. If our licensors do not protect our rights under our license agreements with them or do not reasonably consent to our sublicense of rights or if these license agreements are terminated, we may lose revenue and expend significant resources defending our rights. We have licensed from GSK worldwide rights, excluding Japan, to an antiviral compound, maribavir, for the prevention and treatment of CMV infections related to transplant. This compound and a related compound are subject to patents and patent applications in a variety of countries throughout the world. We depend on GSK to prosecute and maintain many of these patents and patent applications and protect such patent rights. Failure by GSK to prosecute or maintain such patents or patent applications and protect such patent rights could lead to our loss of future revenue. Under certain circumstances, our ability to sublicense our rights under these license agreements is subject to the licensor’s consent. If our license agreement with GSK is terminated, our ability to manufacture, develop, market and sell products under those agreements would terminate. In September 2011, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with INS under which INS has granted us exclusive worldwide rights to develop, manufacture, distribute, market and sell products containing indole-3-propionic acid, or VP-20629. We intend to develop a licensed product containing VP-20629 for the treatment of Friedreich’s Ataxia. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our ability to compete. We are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel, including our President and CEO, Vincent J. Milano, our Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Daniel B. Soland, our Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Charles Rowland, our Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer, Colin Broom, our Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs and Quality, Robert Pietrusko and our Vice President, Strategic Initiatives, Thomas Doyle. Our ability to grow and expand into new areas and activities will require additional expertise and the addition of new qualified personnel in the United States, Europe and other markets. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Furthermore, we have not entered into non-competition agreements or employment agreements with our key employees. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would harm our development programs, and our ability to manage day-to-day operations, attract collaboration partners, attract and retain other employees and generate revenues. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. 52 Table of Contents Even after regulatory approval is received, as with Vancocin and Cinryze, if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our approved products, they could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Cinryze and Vancocin are, and any other product for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authority will be, subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. After approval of a product, we will have, and with Cinryze and Vancocin, we currently have, significant ongoing regulatory compliance obligations related to manufacturing processes, quality control, labeling, post-approval clinical data collection and promotional activities for each such product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in penalties or other actions, including: • warning letters; • class restrictions or “black-box” warnings • fines; • product recalls; • withdrawal of regulatory approval; • operating restrictions, including restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; • disgorgement of profits; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. As part of the approval for Cinryze, we are required to conduct a clinical study designed to evaluate safety, including thrombotic adverse events, efficacy and immunogenicity of higher than 1000 Units doses of Cinryze every three or four days for routine prophylaxis. Collection and periodic reporting of CMC data also have been requested as a post-approval commitment. In the event we are unable to comply with these requirements and commitments, we may be subject to penalties or other actions. In addition, in June 2009, we received an untitled letter from the Office of Compliance and Biologics Quality in the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research alleging promotional materials were false or misleading because they present efficacy claims for Cinryze but failed to reveal, and they minimize, material facts; they make unsubstantiated comparative claims; and they overstate the efficacy of Cinryze. We have revised our marketing materials and the FDA has closed the review of these materials. Over the past few years, a significant number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of inquiries and investigations by various federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities, including the DOJ and various United States Attorney’s Offices, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA, the FTC and various state Attorneys General offices. These investigations have alleged violations of various federal and state laws and regulations, including claims asserting antitrust violations, violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the False Claims Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, anti-kickback laws, and other alleged violations in connection with off-label promotion of products, pricing and Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement. It is both costly and time-consuming for us to comply with these extensive regulations to which it is subject. Additionally, incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to withdrawal of a product from the market. Companies may not promote drugs for “off-label” uses—that is, uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA. Physicians may prescribe drug products for off-label uses, and such off-label uses are common across some medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician’s choice of treatments, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics 53 Table of Contents Act and FDA regulations restrict communications on the subject of off-label uses of drug products by pharmaceutical companies. The Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) and FDA both actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the OIG and the FDA allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning their products. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding all of our products are in compliance with the relevant legal requirements, the OIG or the FDA may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management’s attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged. The FDA provides guidelines with respect to appropriate promotion and continuing medical and health education activities. Although we endeavor to follow these guidelines, the FDA or the OIG may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Should the government choose to initiate action against us, we could face substantial penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, management’s attention could be diverted and our reputation could be damaged. In addition, anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, or pay any remuneration in exchange for purchasing, leasing or ordering any service or items including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug for which payment may be made under a federal health care program. Because of the sweeping language of the federal anti-kickback statute, many potentially beneficial business arrangements would be prohibited if the statute were strictly applied. To avoid this outcome, the United States Department of Health and Human Services has published regulations—known as “safe harbors”—that identify exceptions or exemptions to the statute’s prohibitions. Arrangements that do not fit within the safe harbors are not automatically deemed to be illegal, but must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis for compliance with the statute. We seek to comply with anti-kickback statutes and to fit within one of the defined “safe harbors”. However, due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of uniform guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, there can be no assurance that our practices will not be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. Violations of such restrictions may be punishable by civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from United States federal healthcare programs (including Medicaid and Medicare). Any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, several states and localities, including California, the District of Columbia, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Vermont, Texas, and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation was approved by the federal government in 2010 and will take effect in 2012. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. If we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. Any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. Our future product revenues from sales of Vancocin and Cinryze could be reduced by imports from countries where similar products are available at lower prices. Vancocin has been approved for sale outside of the United States, including but not limited to Canada, Brazil and Europe, and Lilly or its licensees continue to market Vancocin outside of the United States. There are products 54 Table of Contents similar to Cinryze which are approved in the E.U. There have been cases in which pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in markets outside the United States and then imported to the United States where they could be resold at prices higher than the original discounted price, but lower than the prices commercially available in the United States. If this happens with Vancocin or Cinryze our revenues would be adversely affected. Additionally, there are non-United States, Internet-based companies supplying Vancocin directly to patients at significantly reduced prices. In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in the United States Congress and in some state legislatures that would authorize re-importation of pharmaceutical products into the United States from other countries including Canada. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, which if adopted, could result in increased competition for our products and lower prices. Risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. We have employees located in Europe and are engaged in marketing and distributing several products, conducting clinical trials and have established manufacturing relationships in Europe. We have also established our own commercial sales and marketing personnel in Europe and plan to increase the number of personnel in certain European countries. In the future, we plan to expand our operations or enter into distribution arrangements with third parties to market our products and product candidates in countries outside of the United States and Europe. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. Risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: • differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; • changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; • compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country; • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and • business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. In Europe, we market two products that contain active ingredients that are controlled substances, and are therefore subject to additional regulation by European regulatory authorities relating to the procurement, manufacture, labeling, packaging, security controls, shipment, sale and use of these products. We continue to monitor economic conditions, including volatility associated with international economies, associated impacts on the financial markets and our business, and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. The credit and economic conditions in Greece, Italy, Spain, Ireland and Portugal, among other members of the European Union have deteriorated throughout 2011. These conditions have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time it takes to collect our outstanding accounts receivable in these countries. We currently do not have any receivables in Greece, Italy, Spain or Portugal but anticipate that sales in one or more of these countries may commence during. In addition, incidents of product misuse, product diversion or theft may occur with products containing controlled substances. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations. 55 Table of Contents If we are not successful in integrating recent additions to our clinical development pipeline into our business, then the benefits of the transactions will not be fully realized and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. We have recently completed several business development transactions, including licensing VP-20629 from INS and acquiring DuoCort Pharmaceuticals. We may not achieve successful integration of these assets in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the benefits acquisition to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. The successful integration of these assets will require, among other things, integration of the VP-20629 asset into our preclinical and clinical development operations and integration of Plenadren into our European operations. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of our management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results as a result, adversely affect the market price of we common stock. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of accounting methods may adversely affect the market value of our common stock as a result of the acquisition of DuoCort. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 141R, Business Combinations, the total initial purchase price is allocated to DuoCort’s net tangible assets or identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the merger. We will incur additional amortization expense based on the identifiable amortizable intangible assets acquired pursuant to the merger agreement and their relative useful lives. These amortization charges will have a material impact on our results of operations, and therefore could have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2011 is $205.0 million. Additionally, we have unused availability under the three-year senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $200.0 million. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, because: • a portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make a payment on the senior convertible notes, we could be in default on the senior convertible notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. Conversely, a default on our other outstanding indebtedness may cause a default under the senior convertible notes. We have a future liability in the form of a contingent value payments to the former stockholders of Lev upon the achievement of a commercial target. The CVR payment of $0.50 per share ($87.5 million) would become payable when Cinryze reaches at least $600 million in cumulative net product sales within 10 years of closing of the acquisition. We anticipate that this payment will be payable during 2012. In addition, we have a future liability in the form of contingent milestone payments to the former stockholders of DuoCort. Payments of up to 860 million SEK or approximately $124 million would become payable upon the achievement of certain milestones related to Plenadren manufacturing, sales and territory expansion. We cannot predict if or when these payments may be payable or if they could materially adversely affect our business at the time of payment. 56 Table of Contents Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our business in several ways. The agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness subject us to various covenants that limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in a default under our outstanding indebtedness that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and our lenders could terminate all commitments to extend further credit. The instruments governing our debt contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions that may cause all of the debt issued under such instruments to become immediately due and payable as a result of a default under an unrelated debt instrument. An event of default or an acceleration under one debt agreement could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of other debt agreements. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if the obligations thereunder are accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral under our Credit Facility. If the lenders under our Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the obligations outstanding under our Credit Facility and our other indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. Our stock price could continue to be volatile. Our stock price, like the market price of the stock of other pharmaceutical companies, has been volatile. For example, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the market price for our common stock fluctuated between $14.62 and $28.34 per share. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market for our common stock: • period to period fluctuations in sales of Vancocin and Cinryze; • approvals of generic products that compete with Vancocin; • our ability to successfully manufacture sufficient amounts of Cinryze to meet demand and increase manufacturing capacity; • results of clinical trials with respect to our product candidates in development or those of our competitors; • developments with our collaborators; 57 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; • litigation or public concern relating to our products or our competitors’ products; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights of our or its competitors (including related litigation); • any announcement regarding our acquisition of product candidates or entities; • future announcements concerning our industry; • governmental regulation; • changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws and related regulations; • actions or decisions by the SEC, the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory agencies; • changes or announcements of changes in reimbursement policies; • period to period fluctuations in our operating results, including changes in accounting estimates; • our cash and cash equivalents balances; • changes in our capital structure; • changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • market conditions applicable to our business sector; and • general market conditions. The rights that have been and may in the future be granted to holders of our common or preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of other stockholders and may discourage a takeover. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, privileges and other terms of such shares. Our board of directors may exercise this authority without the approval of, or notice to, our stockholders. Accordingly, the rights of the holders of our common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock in order to effect a change in control or replace our current management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The application of Section 203 could also delay or prevent a third party or a significant stockholder of ours from acquiring control of us or replacing its current management. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Generally, a business combination includes a merger, asset or stock sale, or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Under Delaware law, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. In addition, our charter and bylaws contain certain provisions that could discourage a hostile takeover, such as a staggered board of directors and significant notice provisions for nominations of directors and proposals. Our charter and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock in order to effect a change in control or replace our current management. Conversion of the senior convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. To the extent we issue any shares of our common stock upon conversion of the senior convertible senior notes, the conversion of some or all of the senior convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing 58 Table of Contents stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the senior convertible senior notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the senior convertible senior notes could depress the price of our common stock. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock and other securities, and expose us to counterparty risk. In connection with the issuance of the senior convertible senior notes, we have entered into privately-negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with two counterparties, which are expected to generally reduce the potential equity dilution of our common stock upon conversion of the senior convertible notes. To reduce the cost to us of the convertible note hedge transactions, we also entered into warrant transactions with these counterparties. To the extent that the price of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the warrant transactions, the warrant transactions will be dilutive to us. In connection with establishing their initial hedge of these transactions, the counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may have entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. The counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may modify their hedge positions from time to time by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or by purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities in secondary market transactions, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock or such securities, or could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our common stock or such securities. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk to the extent that the counterparties do not satisfy their obligations under the convertible note hedge transactions. We will be required to perform in full our obligations under the warrant transactions, regardless of whether the counterparties perform, in while or in part, their obligations under the convertible note hedge transactions. The potential effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock and other securities will depend in part on market conditions, and cannot be ascertained at this time. The fundamental change purchase feature of the senior convertible notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company. The terms of the senior convertible notes require us to purchase the senior convertible notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change. A takeover of our company would trigger the requirement that we purchase the senior convertible notes. Alternatively, if certain transactions that constitute a fundamental change occur, under certain circumstances, we will increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of our common stock to compensate holders for the lost option time value of the senior convertible notes as a result of such transaction. This increased conversion rate will apply only to holders who convert their senior convertible notes in connection with any such transaction. The number of the additional shares of our common stock will be determined based on the date on which the transaction becomes effective and the price paid per share of our common stock. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 