ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and all other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you make an investment decision. If any of the following risk factors, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material, actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. We have historically depended heavily on the continued sales of Vancocin. If revenue from Vancocin materially declines, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed because, other than potential royalties and milestone payments, sales of Vancocin currently are our only material source of revenue. In addition, to the extent that revenue from Vancocin materially declines prior to Cinryze achieving significant commercial success, our financial condition and results of operations may be further harmed because sales of Cinryze may be our only other material source of revenue for at least the next several years. Vancocin product sales could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • the development and approval of competitive generic versions of oral Vancocin, approval of products which are currently marketed for other indications by other companies or new pharmaceuticals and technological advances to treat the conditions addressed by Vancocin; • manufacturing or supply interruptions which could impair our ability to acquire an adequate supply of Vancocin to meet demand for the product; • changes in the prescribing or procedural practices of physicians in the areas of infectious disease, gastroenterology and internal medicine, including off-label prescribing of other products; • decreases in the rate of infections for which Vancocin is prescribed; • the level and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • decrease in the sensitivity of the relevant bacterium to Vancocin; • changes in terms required by wholesalers, including “fee-for-service” contracts; • marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors; • our ability to maintain all necessary contracts or obtain all necessary rights under applicable federal and state rules and regulations; • the approval of legislative proposals that would authorize re-importation of Vancocin into the U.S. from other countries; • regulatory action by the FDA and other government regulatory agencies; • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third-party payors or retail pharmacies; and • product liability claims. Revenues from the sale of Vancocin may not remain at or above current levels or achieve the level of net product sales that we expect. We believe the rate of infections for which Vancocin is prescribed decreased during the second half of 2007 and remained flat during 2008 and that the rates of infection may remain flat or decline during 2009. During the third quarter of 2007, we made the decision to, for the first time, to create a small sales organization targeting teaching institutions to promote Vancocin. Our sales organization commenced operations during the first quarter of 2008. In the event our sales and marketing efforts are not effective and the rate of infections for which Vancocin is prescribed continues to decline, we could experience a decrease in sales of Vancocin. A decrease in sales of Vancocin, combined with increased expenses from the 20 Table of Contents development of maribavir and the commercial launch of Cinryze could result in our inability to maintain profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we are unable to successfully commercialize Cinryze, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. The FDA approved Cinryze for routine prophylaxis against angioedema attacks in adolescent and adult patients with hereditary angioedema on October 10, 2008. Cinryze became commercially available for routine prophylaxis against HAE in December 2008. The commercial success of Cinryze will depend on several factors, including the following: • the number of patients with HAE that may be treated with Cinryze; • acceptance by physicians and patients of Cinryze as a safe and effective treatment; • our ability to effectively market and distribute Cinryze in the United States; • cost effectiveness of HAE treatment using Cinryze; • relative convenience and ease of administration of Cinryze; • potential advantages of Cinryze over alternative treatments; • the timing of the approval of competitive products including another C1 esterase inhibitor for the acute treatment of HAE; • patients’ ability to obtain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors; • sufficient supply and reasonable pricing of raw materials necessary to manufacture Cinryze; and • manufacturing or supply interruptions which could impair our ability to acquire an adequate supply of Cinryze to meet demand for the product. If we are not successful in commercializing Cinryze in the U.S., or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, we could fail to maintain profitability and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity will be materially adversely impacted. Our long-term success depends upon our ability to develop, receive regulatory approval for and commercialize drug product candidates and, if we are not successful, our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of products resulting from our product candidates will be limited. All of our drug candidates will require governmental approvals prior to commercialization. Our failure to develop, receive regulatory approvals for and commercialize our development stage product candidates successfully will prevent us from generating revenues from the sale of products resulting from our product candidates. Our product candidates are in the development stage and may not be shown to be safe or effective. Cinryze In December 2008, we submitted a supplemental Biologics Application (sBLA) for Cinryze as a treatment for acute attacks of HAE based on a re-analysis and resubmission of data from a pivotal Phase 3 acute treatment study of Cinryze and interim data from an ongoing open label acute study of the drug. In February 2009, the sBLA was granted priority review with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) date of June 3, 2009. Maribavir We initiated a phase 3 study in stem cell transplant patients for maribavir in September 2006 and a second phase 3 study in liver transplant patients in July 2007. On February 9, 2009 we announced that such phase 3 study did not achieve its primary endpoint or key secondary endpoints. We are evaluating our maribavir program in light of these results. In the event we are unable to develop a path forward, we will not generate any future revenue from maribavir. HCV-796 We initiated our phase 2 program with Wyeth for HCV-796 in October 2006. In August 2007, we and Wyeth decided to discontinue dosing with HCV-796 in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin in our phase 2 study as 8% of patients showed elevated liver enzyme levels after 8 weeks or more of therapy with HCV-796 with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. In April 2008, we and Wyeth jointly determined to discontinue the development of HCV-796 due to the previously 21 Table of Contents announced safety issue that emerged in the ongoing Phase 2 trial in patients with hepatitis C. We do not expect to continue to collaborate on future development of hepatitis C treatment candidates with Wyeth, however a decision to terminate the First Amended and Restated Collaboration and License Agreement dated June 26, 2003 has not been reached. Non-toxigenic difficile In February 2006, we entered into a licensing agreement for the rights to develop non-toxigenic strains of C. difficile, or NTCD, for the treatment and prevention of CDI. We plan to initially focus our efforts on the opportunity to prevent recurrence of CDI following treatment with antibiotics such as Vancocin. NTCD is in the preclinical phase which we expect will move into humans for the first time during 2009. These results of the clinical trials may not support further clinical development. We cannot be certain that our efforts and the efforts of our partners regarding our product candidates will lead to commercially viable products. Negative, inconclusive or inconsistent clinical trial results, such as the results relating to our Phase 3 study of maribavir in stem cell transplant patients could prevent regulatory approval, increase the cost and timing of regulatory approval, cause us to perform additional studies or to file for a narrower indication than planned. We do not know what the final cost to manufacture product candidates in commercial quantities will be, or the dose required to treat patients and, consequently, what the total cost of goods for a treatment regimen will be. If we are unable to successfully develop our product candidates, we will not have a source of revenue other than Vancocin and Cinryze. Moreover, the failure of one or more of our product candidates in clinical development could harm our ability to raise additional capital. Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. For example, our phase 3 trial evaluating maribavir in stem cell transplant patients did not achieve its primary endpoint and failed to meet its key secondary endpoints. The development of any of our product candidates is subject to many risks, including that: • the product candidate is found to be ineffective or unsafe; • the clinical test results for the product candidate delay or prevent regulatory approval; • the FDA or other regulatory authorities forbid we to initiate or continue testing of the product candidates in human clinical trials; • the product candidate cannot be developed into a commercially viable product; • the product candidate is difficult and/or costly to manufacture; • the product candidate later is discovered to cause adverse effects that prevent widespread use, require withdrawal from the market, or serve as the basis for product liability claims; • third party competitors hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing the product candidate; and • third party competitors market a more clinically effective, safer, or more cost-effective product. Even if we believe that the clinical data sufficiently demonstrates the safety and efficacy of a product candidate, regulators may disagree with us, which could delay, limit or prevent the approval of such product candidate. In addition, regulatory approval may take longer than we expect as a result of a number of factors, including failure to qualify for priority review of our application. All statutes and regulations governing the approval of our product candidates are subject to change in the future. These changes may increase the time or cost of regulatory approval, limit approval, or prevent it completely. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, or acquire the rights to additional already approved products, the later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in adverse consequences, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Approval of a product candidate may be conditioned upon certain limitations and restrictions as to the drug’s use, or upon the conduct of further studies, and may be subject to continuous review. 22 Table of Contents The regulatory process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of our product candidates. We have a product candidate for the prevention and treatment of CMV in clinical development and a product candidate, NTCD, in pre-clinical development for the treatment and prevention of CDI. Schering-Plough is conducting the clinical development of pleconaril. We must complete significant laboratory, animal and clinical testing on these product candidates before submitting marketing applications in the U.S. and abroad. The rate of completion of clinical trials depends upon many factors, including the rates of initiation of clinical sites and enrollment of patients. For example, our enrollment of patients in our phase 2 clinical trial for maribavir was impacted by our ability to identify and successfully recruit a sufficient number of patients who have undergone allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell/bone marrow transplantation. Our phase 3 studies for maribavir required substantially more clinical sites and patients than were required for the phase 2 study, and many of these clinical sites and patients are located in Europe. We do not have extensive experience in executing clinical trials in Europe. We also initiated a second phase 3 study of maribavir in liver transplant patients. We have never conducted clinical studies in this population and it has experienced enrollment at a rate which is lower than anticipated at the initiation of the study. If we are unable to initiate a sufficient number of clinical sites and accrue sufficient clinical patients who are eligible to participate in the trials during the appropriate period, we may need to delay our clinical trials and incur significant additional costs. In addition, the FDA, Independent Safety Monitoring Boards or Institutional Review Boards may require us to delay, restrict, or discontinue our clinical trials on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In addition, we may be unable to submit a NDA to the FDA or marketing petitions to other regulatory authorities such as the EMEA for our product candidates within the time frame we currently expect, or at all. Once an NDA or other form of petition for marketing authority is submitted, it must be approved by the FDA or other marketing authority before we can commercialize the product described in the application. The cost of human clinical trials varies dramatically based on a number of factors, including: • the number, order and timing of clinical indications pursued; • the number of patients required for enrollment; • the length of time required to enroll these patients; • the costs and difficulty of obtaining clinical supplies of the product candidate; and • the difficulty in obtaining sufficient patient populations and clinicians. Even if we obtain positive preclinical or clinical trial results in initial studies, future clinical trial results may not be similarly positive. As a result, ongoing and contemplated clinical testing, if permitted by governmental authorities, may not demonstrate that a product candidate is safe and effective in the patient population and for the disease indications for which we believe it will be commercially advantageous to market the product. The failure of our clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidate for the desired indications could delay the commercialization of the product. In 2003, Congress enacted the Pediatric Research Equity Act requiring the development and submission of pediatric use data for new drug products. In Europe, a Pediatric Investigational Plan must be agreed before a MAA can be submitted. our failure to obtain these data, or to obtain a deferral of, or exemption from, these requirements could adversely affect our chances of receiving regulatory approval, or could result in regulatory or legal enforcement actions. Because the target patient population for Cinryze is small and has not been definitively determined, we must be able to successfully identify HAE patients and achieve a significant market share in order to maintain profitability. The prevalence of HAE patients has not been definitively determined but has been estimated at approximately 4,600 to 6,000 total patients in the U.S. There can be no guarantee that any of our programs will be effective at identifying HAE patients and the number of HAE patients in the U.S. may turn out to be lower than expected or such patients may not be amenable to treatment with Cinryze. Accordingly, our product sales of Cinryze and overall business could be adversely affected if we are unable to identify sufficient numbers of HAE patients to maintain profitability. 23 Table of Contents Our core patent protection for Vancocin has expired, which could result in significant competition from generic products and lead to a significant reduction in sales of Vancocin. The last core patent protecting Vancocin expired in 1996. As a result, there is a potential for significant competition from generic products that treat the same conditions addressed by Vancocin. Such competition could result in a significant reduction in sales of Vancocin. We believe that regulatory hurdles (notwithstanding the recent actions taken by the FDA’s Office of Generic Drugs, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (OGD), which are described in more detail below and which we are vigorously opposing), as well as product manufacturing trade secrets, know-how and related non-patent intellectual property, may present barriers to market entry of generic competition. However, these barriers may not actually delay or prevent generic competition. The effectiveness of these non-patent-related barriers to competition will depend primarily upon: • the current or future regulatory approval requirements for any generic applicant; • the complexities of the manufacturing process for a competitive product; • the nature of the market which Vancocin serves and the position of Vancocin in the market from time to time; • the growth of the market which Vancocin serves; and • our ability to protect Vancocin know-how as a trade secret. Generic competitors may take advantage of the absence of patent protection for Vancocin to attempt to develop a competing product. We have become aware of information suggesting that other potential competitors are attempting to develop a competing generic product. For example, multiple generic manufacturers have publicly stated that they have filed to receive product approval and commence a marketing launch of a generic version of oral Vancocin. We are not able to predict the time period in which a generic drug may enter the market, as this timing will be affected by a number of factors, including: • whether an in-vitro method of demonstrating bioequivalence is available to an applicant to gain marketing approval by the FDA in lieu of performing clinical studies; • the nature of any clinical trials which are required, if any; • the timing of filing an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or an ANDA, the amount of time required by the FDA to review the ANDA and whether a generic drug application is afforded an accelerated review by the FDA; • the specific formulation of drug for which approval is being sought; and • the time required to develop appropriate manufacturing procedures. On March 17, 2006, we learned that the OGD changed its approach regarding the conditions that must be met in order for a generic drug applicant to request a waiver of in-vivo bioequivalence testing for vancomycin hydrochloride capsules. Specifically, we were informed that a generic applicant may be able to request such a waiver provided that dissolution testing demonstrates that the test product is rapidly dissolving at certain specified conditions. This deviated from our understanding of OGD’s historical practices which would require, for a poorly-absorbed, locally acting gastrointestinal drug (such as Vancocin) a demonstration of bioequivalence through clinical studies or a demonstration of bioequivalence using an appropriately validated in-vitro methodology. On March 17, 2006, we filed a Petition for Stay of Action with the FDA regarding the requirements for waivers of in-vivo bioequivalence testing for Vancocin, and we have amended that petition several times through additional filings in support of our opposition to any approach that does not require rigorous scientific methods to demonstrate a rate and extent of drug release to the site of action consistent with good medicine and science. In December 2008, the FDA changed OGD’s 2006 bioequivalence recommendation by issuing draft guidance for establishing bioequivalence to Vancocin which would require generic products that have the same inactive ingredients in the same quantities as Vancocin, or Q1 and Q2 the same, to demonstrate bioequivalence through comparative dissolution 24 Table of Contents testing. Under this latest proposed method, any generic product that is not Q1 and Q2 the same as Vancocin would need to conduct an in vivo study with clinical endpoints to demonstrate bioequivalence with Vancocin. The comment period for this proposed change is scheduled to expire on March 19, 2009. We are opposing both the substance of the FDA’s bioequivalence method and the manner in which it was developed. In the event the OGD’s revised approach regarding the conditions that must be met in order for a generic drug applicant to request a waiver of in-vivo bioequivalence testing for Vancocin remains in effect, the time period in which a generic competitor may enter the market would be reduced. There can be no assurance that the FDA will agree with the positions stated in our Vancocin related submissions or that our efforts to oppose the OGD’s March 2006 and December 2008 recommendation to determine bioequivalence to Vancocin through in-vitro dissolution testing will be successful. We cannot predict the timeframe in which the FDA will make a decision regarding either our citizen petition for Vancocin or the approval of generic versions of Vancocin. If we are unable to change the recommendation set forth by the OGD in March 2006 as revised in December 2008, the threat of generic competition will be high. Multiple generic manufacturers have publicly stated that they have filed to receive product approval and commence a marketing launch of a generic version of oral Vancocin. If a generic competitor or multiple generic competitors were to formulate a competing product that was approved by the FDA and that gained market acceptance, it would have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and possibly asset valuations, on our business and our guidance. A competitor has submitted a biologics license application with the FDA for a product candidate for the acute treatment of HAE. If we are not first to receive FDA approval of Cinryze for the acute treatment of HAE, the Orphan Drug Act may provide a competitor C1 Inhibitor product with up to seven years of market exclusivity in the acute indication. The Orphan Drug Act was created to encourage companies to develop therapies for rare diseases by providing incentives for drug development and commercialization. One of the incentives provided by the act is seven years of market exclusivity for the first product in a class licensed for the treatment of a rare disease. HAE is considered to be a rare disease under the Orphan Drug Act, and companies may obtain orphan drug status for therapies that are developed for this indication. The approval of Cinryze for the routine prophylaxis against angioedema attacks in adolescent and adult patients with HAE would not prevent another company from gaining licensure related to the acute treatment of HAE. We believe CSL Behring and Pharming NV are currently developing products that the FDA may determine to be in the same class as our C1 INH product candidate for the acute treatment of HAE. Based on discussions with the FDA, in October 2008 we withdrew the portion of the BLA referring to data for the acute treatment of HAE attacks. We resubmitted data as a supplemental BLA, along with additional data from ongoing open label acute studies of Cinryze, in December 2008. While we do not believe that an additional study will be required, it is possible that the FDA may require additional studies. In March 2008, CSL Behring submitted a biologics license application with the FDA for a product candidate for the acute treatment of HAE. We cannot assure that our supplemental BLA regarding acute treatment will be reviewed by the FDA prior to CSL Behring’s application. In the event that another company is first to obtain FDA licensure for their product for acute treatment of HAE, we could be prevented from obtaining licensure and marketing our C1 INH product candidate for the acute treatment of HAE which could reduce our potential future revenues from sales of Cinryze. We do not know whether Vancocin will continue to be competitive in the markets which it serves, nor do we know if Cinryze will be, or will remain competitive in the markets which it is intended to serve. We currently generate revenues from sales of Vancocin in the U.S. for the treatment of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by Clostridium difficile infection, or CDI or C. difficile, and enterocolitis caused by S. aureus , including methicillin-resistant strains. Vancocin sales for treatment of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by C. difficile have increased over the past 12 months; however, Vancocin’s share of the U.S. market for this indication may decrease due to competitive forces and market dynamics, including an increase in the oral use of intravenous vancomycin. Metronidazole, a generic product, is regularly prescribed to treat CDI at costs which are substantially lower than for Vancocin. In addition, products which are currently marketed for other indications by other companies may also be prescribed to treat this indication. Other drugs that are in development by our competitors, including Salix Pharmaceuticals, Optimer Pharmaceuticals and Genzyme Corporation, could be found to have competitive advantages over Vancocin. Approval of new products, or expanded use of currently available products, to treat CDI, and particularly severe disease caused by CDI, could materially and adversely affect our sales of Vancocin. 25 Table of Contents The FDA approved Cinryze for routine prophylaxis against angioedema attacks in adolescent and adult patients with hereditary angioedema on October 10, 2008 and Cinryze became commercially available for prophylaxis against HAE in December 2009. While we are not aware of other companies which are developing a product for the prophylaxis of HAE, we believe CSL Behring, Dyax, Pharming NV and Jerini/Shire are currently developing products for the acute treatment of HAE. In addition, steroid based products are currently used for prophylaxis of HAE. Approval of new products, or expanded use of currently available products, to prophylax or treat HAE, could materially and adversely affect our sales of Cinryze. We have limited sales and marketing infrastructure and if we are unable to develop our own sales and marketing capability, we may be unsuccessful in commercializing our products. We currently have a limited marketing staff in the U.S. and Europe. During the third quarter of 2007, we made the decision to, for the first time, create a small sales organization targeting teaching institutions to promote Vancocin. Our sales organization commenced operations during the first quarter of 2008. As a result of our acquisition of Vancocin, we established a small group of regional medical scientists and commenced medical education programs. In connection with our acquisition of Cinryze, we established a modest national sales organization targeting allergists and we increased the number of marketing personnel. The development of a marketing and sales capability for our marketed products, product candidates in clinical development, or for products that we may acquire if we are successful in our business development efforts, in the U.S. and Europe could require significant expenditures, management resources and time. We may be unable to build a marketing and sales capability, the cost of establishing such a marketing and sales capability may exceed any product revenues, and our marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. If we are unable to successfully establish a sales and marketing capability in the U.S. and Europe in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Even if we are able to develop a sales force, it may not successfully penetrate the markets for any of our proposed products. Under our agreement with GSK, we have the exclusive right to market and sell maribavir throughout the world, other than Japan. Schering-Plough is solely responsible for the marketing, promotion and sale of intranasal pleconaril in the event pleconaril receives marketing approval. The distribution of our commercial products is dependent upon a limited number of third party service providers and disruptions in these relationships could result in our failure to achieve the sales of our products that we expected. We rely on a single third party to provide all necessary distribution and logistics services with respect to our sales of Vancocin and Cinryze, including warehousing of finished product, accounts receivable management, billing, collection and recordkeeping. The third party logistics service provider stores and distributes our products from two warehouses located in the central U.S. and western U.S. A disaster occurring at or near either facility could materially and adversely impact our ability to supply Vancocin and Cinryze to our distribution partners, which would result in a reduction in revenues from sales. Approximately 94% of our Vancocin sales are to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers. If any of these wholesalers ceases to purchase our product for any reason, then unless and until the remaining wholesalers increase their purchases of Vancocin or alternative distribution channels are established: • our commercial operations could be significantly disrupted; • the availability of Vancocin to patients could be disrupted; and • we may not achieve the sales of Vancocin that we expected, which could decrease our revenues and potentially affect our ability to maintain profitability. Additionally, we do not require collateral from our wholesalers but rather maintain credit limits and as a result we have an exposure to credit risk in our accounts receivable. The highest account receivable during 2008 we experienced from any one wholesaler was approximately $16.1 million and we anticipate that this amount could increase if Vancocin sales continue to increase. While we have experienced prompt payment by wholesalers and have not had any defaults on payments owed, a default by a large wholesaler could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash position. We have entered into agreements with two specialty distributors / specialty pharmacies that distribute Cinryze to physicians, hospitals, pharmacies, home health providers and patients. We also entered into an agreement with a single service provider 26 Table of Contents who will provide patient support services including benefit coverage investigations, assistance with prior authorizations, appeals assistance, and broad based reimbursement assistance. If our third party service providers cease to be able to provide us with these services, or do not provide these services in a timely or professional manner, it could significantly disrupt our commercial operations, and may result in our not achieving the sales of Vancocin and Cinryze that we expected. Additionally, any interruption to these services could cause a delay in delivering product to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently depend, and will in the future continue to depend, on third parties to manufacture raw, intermediate and finished goods for Vancocin, Cinryze and our product candidates. If these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements and the requirements of regulatory authorities, our future revenues may be materially adversely affected. We do not have the internal capability to manufacture quantities of pharmaceutical products to supply our clinical or commercial needs under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, or cGMPs. In order to continue to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, we will need to contract with third parties that have, or otherwise develop, the necessary manufacturing capabilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMPs that are capable of manufacturing our products and product candidates. If we are unable to enter into supply and processing contracts with any of these manufacturers or processors for our development stage product candidates, there may be additional costs and delays in the development and commercialization of these product candidates. If we are required to find an additional or alternative source of supply, there may be additional costs and delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Additionally, the FDA inspects all commercial manufacturing facilities before approving a new drug application, or NDA, for a drug manufactured at those sites. If any of our manufacturers or processors fails to pass this FDA inspection, the approval and eventual commercialization of our products and product candidates may be delayed. All of our contract manufacturers must comply with the applicable cGMPs, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. If our contract manufacturers do not comply with the applicable cGMPs and other FDA regulatory requirements, we may be subject to product liability claims, the availability of marketed products for sale could be reduced, our product commercialization could be delayed or subject to restrictions, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and may lose potential revenue and we could suffer delays in the progress of clinical trials for products under development. We do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Moreover, while we may choose to manufacture products in the future, we have no experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products for clinical trials or commercial purposes. If we decide to manufacture products, we would be subject to the regulatory requirements described above. In addition, we would require substantial additional capital and would be subject to delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. No matter who manufactures the product, we will be subject to continuing obligations regarding the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. We rely on a single source of vancomycin, the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) of Vancocin and also rely on a single manufacturer of Vancocin capsules. Our third party API supplier and finished product supplier are the only manufacturers qualified by the FDA to manufacture API and Vancocin capsule finished product for distribution and sale in the U.S. We are therefore dependent upon these suppliers. We attempt to maintain Vancocin inventory levels to meet our current projections, plus a reasonable stock in excess of those projections. We rely on a single manufacturer of Cinryze. Pursuant to our distribution agreement, Sanquin Blood Supply Foundation will supply us with certain annual minimum and maximum amounts of C1 INH. In the event demand for C-1NH is greater than the amount supplied by Sanquin, we would have to find alternative suppliers of C1 INH. Pursuant to an agreement with Sanquin we are required to finance a portion of the costs of the project to increase the manufacturing capacity of its facilities. Assuming the completion of construction, Sanquin would need to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for the facility on a timely basis in order to manufacture Cinryze for us. If they cannot obtain necessary approvals for these contemplated expansions, or complete the planned construction in a timely manner, we may need to locate an alternative supplier. Currently, to our knowledge there is only one other commercial supplier of C1 esterase inhibitor and that supplier is also developing a product competitive with our lead product candidate. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we would be able to locate another willing supplier for our product on the terms we require. While our current production schedule is sufficient to supply currently anticipated demand in the near term, unexpected increases in demand or supply interruptions could significantly impact our ability to meet demand while retaining an adequate level of reserve inventory. 27 Table of Contents Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our products, including manufacturing capacity limitations, changes in our sources for manufacturing, our failure to timely locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed and conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials. In addition, any commercial dispute with any of our suppliers could result in delays in the manufacture of our product, and affect our ability to commercialize our products. Any interruption in the supply of finished products could hinder our ability to timely distribute our products and satisfy customer demand. If we are unable to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our customers’ orders, we may lose those orders, our customers may cancel other orders, and they may choose instead to stock and purchase competing products. This in turn could cause a loss of our market share and negatively affect our revenues. Supply interruptions may occur and our inventory may not always be adequate. If supplies of U.S. human plasma are interrupted or if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of U.S. human plasma to meet demand for Cinryze, our ability to maintain inventory levels could suffer and future revenues may be delayed or reduced. We have relied exclusively and are dependent on certain third party source suppliers to supply U.S. human plasma for Cinryze. In connection with our commercial launch of Cinryze and our ongoing open label trials and future phase 4 clinical trial, we will need increased supplies of plasma. The plasma market has been constrained in recent years. On July 19, 2007, we entered into an agreement for the purchase and sale of plasma with DCI Management Group, LLC, pursuant to which we purchase quantities of U.S. source plasma. Under this agreement, DCI agreed to sell us specified annual quantities of plasma in accordance with applicable good manufacturing practices. If we are unable to obtain or maintain this level of plasma supply, we will need to obtain our supply from other parties in order to satisfy our expected needs. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for plasma may take a substantial amount of time. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining similar supplies from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA. If we have to switch to a replacement supplier, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of Cinryze could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may decrease sales of Cinryze or result in increased costs. Cinryze is derived from human plasma, and is therefore subject to the risk of biological contamination inherent in plasma-derived products. This risk could adversely affect our ability to obtain raw materials and market our products. Cinryze is derived from donated human plasma. Many disease-causing viruses, bacteria and other pathogens are present in the plasma of infected individuals. If infected individuals donate plasma, the plasma would likely contain those pathogens. As a result, the sourcing of plasma, and the production of products derived from plasma, is regulated extensively by the FDA and other medical product and health care regulatory agencies. We rely on our suppliers to maintain compliance with the regulations promulgated by such agencies. The failure to comply with these regulations or the accidental contamination of plasma could adversely affect our ability to source plasma at commercially reasonable prices. Moreover, public perception about the safety of plasma-derived products could adversely affect the market for our products. Concern over the safety of plasma-derived products, driven in part by past screening failures in the industry and the appearance of infectious agents like HIV, has resulted in the adoption of rigorous screening procedures by regulatory authorities, and screening procedures are likely to become stricter and more complex over time. As screening procedures have become more rigorous, potential donors have been disqualified and other potential donors have been discouraged from donating due to their reluctance to undergo the required screening procedures. Increasingly stringent measures could adversely affect plasma supplies, with a corresponding adverse effect on our ability to obtain raw materials at a commercially acceptable price, or at all. The safety concerns associated with plasma-derived products also affect our ability to market our products. Medical events or studies that raise or substantiate concerns about the safety of our or other similar products would negatively impact public perception of all plasma-derived products and of the plasma donation process. Further, any failure in screening, whether by us or by other manufacturers of these products, could adversely affect our reputation, the support we receive from the medical community and overall demand for our products. We may be subject to product liability claims, which can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or after marketing clearance is obtained, can result in product liability claims. Product liability claims can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us. In addition, third party collaborators and licensees may not protect us from product liability claims. 28 Table of Contents We currently maintain product liability insurance in connection with our clinical development programs and marketing of Vancocin and Cinryze. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities arising from clinical development or product sales. If we are unable to obtain sufficient levels of insurance at acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to product liability claims. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. In addition, any successful claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable terms. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim may be time-consuming and expensive. In order to continue to expand our business and sustain our revenue growth, we will need to acquire additional marketed products or product candidates in clinical development through in-licensing or the acquisitions of businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with us. We may not be able to in-license or acquire suitable products at an acceptable price or at all. In addition, engaging in any in-licensing or acquisitions will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such in-license or acquisition. As part of our long-term strategy and in order to sustain our revenue growth, we intend to seek to acquire or in-license additional marketed products or product candidates in clinical development to treat the patient population targeted by Vancocin, Cinryze and our current product candidates, or products / product candidates in clinical development to treat serious medical conditions which require modest sales and marketing infrastructure, or to complement the markets that we hope our CMV and NTCD programs will serve or in which Vancocin and Cinryze are prescribed. Even if we are able to locate products, product candidates in clinical development or businesses that fit within our strategic focus, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate agreements to acquire or in-license such additional products or product candidates in clinical development on acceptable terms or at all. Further, if we acquire a product, product candidates in clinical development or business, the process of integrating the acquired product, product candidates in clinical development or business may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, such as an acquired product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. We cannot assure you that an acquired product, product candidates in clinical development or business will have the intended effect of helping us to sustain our revenue growth. If we are unable to do so, our business could be materially adversely affected. There are many potential competitors with respect to our product candidates under development, who may develop products and technologies that make our products and/or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. There are many entities, both public and private, including well-known, large pharmaceutical companies, chemical companies, biotechnology companies and research institutions, engaged in developing pharmaceuticals for applications similar to those targeted by our products under development. There are products already marketed by F. Hoffman La-Roche, AstraZeneca and Gilead Sciences Inc. for the prevention and treatment of CMV. Developments by these or other entities may render our product candidates non-competitive or obsolete. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater resources available to them to assist with development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals and product manufacturing and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products more rapidly and more effectively than we do for product candidates. Competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective and less costly than any that we develops and also may prove to be more successful in the manufacturing and marketing of products. Any product that we successfully develop and for which we gain regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Accordingly, important competitive factors, in addition to completion of clinical testing and the receipt of regulatory approval, will include product efficacy, safety, timing and scope of regulatory approvals, availability of supply, marketing and sales capacity, reimbursement coverage, pricing and patent protection. Our products could also be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by regulatory or competitive changes. Any of our future products may not be accepted by the market, which would harm our business and results of operations. Even if our product candidates are approved by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, they may not achieve market acceptance by patients, prescribers and third-party payors. As a result, we may not receive revenues from these products as anticipated. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals, and the scope of marketing and promotion activities permitted by such approvals (e.g., the “label” for the product approved by the FDA); • the availability of third-party reimbursement from payors such as government health programs and private health insurers; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community, such as doctors and hospital administrators, of the clinical safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of drug candidates, as well as their advantages over existing treatment alternatives, if any; • the effectiveness of the sales and marketing force that may be promoting our products; and • the effectiveness of our contract manufacturers. If our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance by a sufficient number of patients, prescribers and third-party payors, our business will be materially adversely affected. The current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and third party distributors. As a result of the current credit and financial market conditions, these 29 Table of Contents organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect our product sales and revenue. Due to the recent tightening of global credit, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including our product manufacturing, supply chain management, conduct of clinical trials, and raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. Finally, if the banking system or the financial markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. Funding, especially on terms acceptable to us, may not be available to meet our future capital needs because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disruptive and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been impacted by significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated market, among other things. These events have negatively affected general economic conditions. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concern about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, meeting our capital needs or otherwise taking advantage of business opportunities may become challenging, which could have a material adverse effect on our business plans, revenues and results of operations. Our strategic plan may not achieve the intended results. In January 2004, we made the strategic decision to focus on the development of later stage opportunities by expanding our product portfolio through the acquisition of complementary clinical development stage or commercial product opportunities as a means to accelerate our path toward becoming a profitable pharmaceutical company. As a result of this strategic decision, we substantially discontinued our early stage activities, including discovery research and most internal preclinical development activities. Our restructuring efforts have placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We may not be successful in executing our strategy. We may not be able to in-license or acquire suitable products at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, engaging in any in-licensing or acquisition will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such in-license or acquisition. We may need additional financing in order to acquire additional new products or product candidates. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. We cannot assure you that an acquired product, product candidates in clinical development or business will have the intended effect of helping us sustain our revenue growth. If we are unable to do so, our business could be materially adversely affected. We depend on collaborations with third parties, which may reduce our product revenues or restrict our ability to commercialize products, and also ties our success to the success of our collaborators. We have entered into, and may in the future enter into additional, sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, development, licensing and other strategic arrangements with third parties. For example, in November 2004, we announced that we entered into a license agreement with Schering-Plough under which Schering-Plough assumed responsibility for all future development and commercialization of pleconaril. Sanofi-Aventis also has exclusive rights to market and sell pleconaril in countries other than the U.S. and Canada for which we will receive a royalty. Schering-Plough will receive a portion of any royalty payments made to us under our license agreement with Sanofi-Aventis for rights to pleconaril. If 30 Table of Contents Schering-Plough or Sanofi-Aventis does not successfully market and sell products in their respective territories, we will not receive revenue from royalties on their sales of products. Sales of Cinryze are dependent on distribution rights that we have received from Sanquin pursuant to a distribution agreement relating to the treatment of HAE. Upon commercial launch of our product candidate for the treatment of HAE and thereafter during the term of the agreement, Sanquin will supply us with our commercial requirements for C1 INH for the treatment of HAE in each country where we have received regulatory approval, subject to minimum annual purchase requirements in Euros equal to approximately $20.9 million per year, net of the agreed upon discount. If we fail to fulfill certain obligations under the distribution agreement, the distribution agreement may be terminated. In addition, Sanquin has the right to terminate the agreement if it is unable to maintain liability insurance for its U.S. obligations, under certain circumstances as described in the distribution agreement. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement upon an uncured breach. We also entered into a license agreement with Sanquin pursuant to which they granted us an exclusive license to use certain patent, patent applications and know-how related to the use of C1 INH technology for the treatment of AMI. Under the terms of the license agreement for AMI, we are obligated to make minimum and earned royalty and other payments to Sanquin. If we fail to fulfill those obligations or other material obligations, the license agreement may be terminated by Sanquin. If Sanquin terminates the license agreement, we will have no further rights to utilize the intellectual property covered by the license agreement, we would not be able to commercialize the applicable product candidate for the treatment of AMI and we may be forced to cease our operations relating to the treatment to AMI using C1 INH. However, in light of the parties’ focus on obtaining marketing approval for Cinryze™, we have agreed with Sanquin to temporarily suspend efforts to develop a commercialization plan for AMI. The parties, however, did not terminate the license agreement. The parties may agree in the future to continue their efforts at commercializing a plan for applying C1 INH for the treatment of AMI. In August 2003, we entered into a license agreement with GSK under which we acquired exclusive worldwide rights, excluding Japan, from GSK to develop and commercialize an antiviral compound, maribavir, for the prevention and treatment of CMV infections related to transplant, including solid organ and hematopoietic stem cell / bone marrow transplantation, congenital transmission, and in patients with HIV infection. GSK retained the exclusive right to market and sell products covered by these patents and patent applications in Japan. We are currently engaged in additional discussions relating to other arrangements. We cannot be sure that we will be able to enter into any such arrangements with third parties on terms acceptable to us or at all. Third party arrangements may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive marketing rights to one or more products, or may have other terms that are burdensome to us. Our ultimate success may depend upon the success of our collaborators. We have obtained from Sanofi-Aventis and GSK, and will attempt to obtain in the future, licensed rights to certain proprietary technologies and compounds from other entities, individuals and research institutions, for which we may be obligated to pay license fees, make milestone payments and pay royalties. In addition, we may in the future enter into collaborative arrangements for the marketing, sales and distribution of our product candidates, which may require us to share profits or revenues. We may be unable to enter into additional collaborative licensing or other arrangements that it needs to develop and commercialize its drug candidates. Moreover, we may not realize the contemplated benefits from such collaborative licensing or other arrangements. These arrangements may place responsibility on our collaborative partners for preclinical testing, human clinical trials, the preparation and submission of applications for regulatory approval, or for marketing, sales and distribution support for product commercialization. We cannot be certain that any of these parties will fulfill their obligations in a manner consistent with our best interest. These arrangements may also require us to transfer certain material rights or issue our equity securities to corporate partners, licensees or others. Any license or sublicense of our commercial rights may reduce our product revenue. Moreover, we may not derive any revenues or profits from these arrangements. In addition, our current strategic arrangements may not continue and we may be unable to enter into future collaborations. Collaborators may also pursue alternative technologies or drug candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that are in direct competition with us. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Two of our current product candidates are based on intellectual property that we have licensed from Sanofi-Aventis and GSK. We depend, and will continue to depend, on these license agreements. All of our license agreements may be terminated if, among other events, we fail to satisfy our obligations as they relate to the development of the particular product candidate. All of our license agreements, other than the agreements with Lilly regarding Vancocin, may also be terminated if we breach that license agreement and do not cure the breach within specified time periods or in the event of our bankruptcy or 31 Table of Contents liquidation. Our agreement with Lilly permits us to suspend the licenses granted to us by Lilly in the event of uncured defaults by us until such time as the default is cured or otherwise resolved. Our license agreement with GSK imposes various obligations on us, including milestone payment requirements and royalties. If we fail to comply with these obligations, GSK has or may have, the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to market products covered by the license. Disputes may arise with respect to our licensing agreements regarding manufacturing, development and commercialization of any of the particular product candidates. These disputes could lead to delays in or the termination of the development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates or to litigation. Many other entities seek to establish collaborative arrangements for product research and development, or otherwise acquire products, in competition with us. We face competition from large and small companies within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, as well as public and private research organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies in acquiring products and establishing collaborative arrangements for product development. Many of the companies and institutions that compete against us have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities than we have, and greater experience in conducting business development activities. These entities represent significant competition to us as we seek to expand further our pipeline through the in-license or acquisition of additional products in clinical development, or that are currently on the market. Moreover, while it is not feasible to predict the actual cost of acquiring additional product candidates, that cost could be substantial. We may need additional financing in order to acquire additional new products. If we are unable to obtain reimbursement for Cinryze from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, Cinryze may be too costly for regular use and our ability to generate revenues would be harmed. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if governmental, private third-party payors and other third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, do not sufficiently defray the cost of Cinryze to the consumer. If these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement for Cinryze or determine to provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, Cinryze may be too costly for general use, and physicians may not prescribe it. Cinryze is significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. Many third-party payors cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payor more expensive for patients, and often require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug. Third-party payors may be especially likely to impose these obstacles to coverage for higher-priced drugs such as Cinryze. In addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for our products may also reduce our profitability and worsen our financial condition. In the United States and elsewhere, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. Government and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting and attempting to limit both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. Because Cinryze is too expensive for most patients to afford without sufficient health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize Cinryze may be adversely impacted. Any limitation on the use of Cinryze or any decrease in the price of Cinryze will have a material adverse effect on our business. Even where patients have access to insurance, their insurance co-payment amounts may be too expensive for them to afford. We intend to financially support the HAE financial assistance programs established by Patient Services Incorporated (PSI), which, among other things, assists patients in acquiring drugs such as Cinryze. Organizations such as PSI assist patients who have no insurance coverage for drugs locate insurance and also provide financial assistance to patients whose insurance coverage leaves them with prohibitive co-payment amounts or other expensive financial obligations. In addition to assistance from organizations such as PSI, we anticipate that we will provide Cinryze without charge for related charitable purposes. We are not able to predict the financial impact of the support we may provide for these and other charitable purposes; however, substantial support could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain profitability. In furtherance of our efforts to facilitate access to Cinryze, we have contracted with a third party to provide the CinryzeSolutions™ program, a treatment support service for patients with HAE and their healthcare providers. CinryzeSolutions personnel will provide education about HAE and Cinryze and help facilitate solutions for reimbursement, 32 Table of Contents coverage and access. Although case managers will assist patients and healthcare providers in locating and accessing Cinryze, we cannot guarantee a sufficient level of coverage, reimbursement or financial assistance. Historically, Vancocin has been subject to limitations on the amount of payment and reimbursement available to patients from third party payors. Historically, only a portion of the cost of Vancocin prescriptions has been paid for or reimbursed by managed care organizations, government and other third party payors. This reimbursement policy makes Vancocin less attractive, from a net-cost perspective, to patients and, to a lesser degree, prescribing physicians. For example, metronidazole, a drug frequently prescribed for CDI, is significantly less expensive than Vancocin. If adequate reimbursement levels are not provided for Vancocin, or if reimbursement policies increasingly favor other products, our market share and net sales could be negatively affected, as could our overall business and financial condition. Our successful commercialization of our product candidates will depend, in part, on the availability and adequacy of third party reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., private health insurers and other organizations. Federal and state regulations govern or influence the reimbursement to health care providers of fees in connection with medical treatment of certain patients. In the U.S., there have been, and we expects there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that could limit the amount that state or federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of drugs. Continued significant changes in the health care system could have a material adverse effect on our business. Decisions by state regulatory agencies, including state pharmacy boards, and/or retail pharmacies may require substitution of generic for branded products, may prefer competitors’ products over our own, and may impair our pricing and thereby constrain our market share and growth. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. could put pressure on the price and usage of our product candidates, which may in turn adversely impact future product sales. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, particularly for indications for which there is no current effective treatment or for which medical care typically is not sought. Adequate third-party coverage may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. If adequate coverage and reimbursement levels are not provided by government and third-party payors for use of our products, our products may fail to achieve market acceptance and we could lose anticipated revenues and experience delayed achievement of profitability. In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in the U.S. Congress and in some state legislatures that include major changes in the health care system. These proposals have included price or patient reimbursement constraints on medicines and restrictions on access to certain products. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, and it is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting us. We rely on our employees, consultants, contractors, suppliers, manufacturers and collaborators to keep our trade secrets confidential. We rely on trade secrets, trademarks, and unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing and manufacturing our products, including Vancocin, in order to protect our significant investment in these products from the risk of discovery by generic drug manufacturers and other potential competition. We require each of our employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, suppliers, manufacturers and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements prohibiting them from taking our proprietary information and technology or from using or disclosing proprietary information to third parties except in specified circumstances. The agreements also provide that all inventions conceived by an employee, consultant or advisor, to the extent appropriate for the services provided during the course of the relationship, are our exclusive property, other than inventions unrelated to us and developed entirely on the individual’s own time. Nevertheless, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets and proprietary know-how if they are used or disclosed. Despite all of the precautions we may take, people who are not parties to confidentiality agreements may obtain access to our trade secrets or know-how. In addition, others may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. 33 Table of Contents We depend on patents and proprietary rights for our products which are in clinical development, which may offer only limited protection against potential infringement, and if we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, we may lose the right to develop, manufacture, market or sell products and lose sources of revenue. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain a strong patent position for our products and technologies in clinical development, both in the U.S. and in other countries. Litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents, or to protect our trade secrets, and could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. We intend to file applications as appropriate for patents describing the composition of matter of our drug candidates, the proprietary processes for producing such compositions, and the uses of our drug candidates. We own three issued U.S. patents, one non-U.S. patents and have a number of pending U.S. patent applications, some of which we co-own with collaborators. We also have filed international, regional and non-U.S. national patent applications in order to pursue patent protection in major foreign countries. Many of our scientific and management personnel were previously employed by competing companies. As a result, such companies may allege trade secret violations and similar claims against us. To facilitate development of our proprietary technology base, we may need to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. If we are unable to obtain such licenses, our product development efforts may be delayed. We may collaborate with universities and governmental research organizations which, as a result, may acquire certain rights to any inventions or technical information derived from such collaboration. We may incur substantial costs in asserting any patent rights and in defending suits against us related to intellectual property rights, even if we are ultimately successful. If we are unsuccessful in defending a claim that we have infringed or misappropriated the intellectual property of a third party, we could be required to pay substantial damages, stop using the disputed technology, develop new non-infringing technologies, or obtain one or more licenses from third parties. If we or our licensors seek to enforce our patents, a court may determine that our patents or our licensors’ patents are invalid or unenforceable, or that the defendant’s activity is not covered by the scope of our patents or our licensors’ patents. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a private party could institute an interference proceeding relating to our patents or patent applications. An opposition or revocation proceeding could be instituted in the patent offices of foreign jurisdictions. An adverse decision in any such proceeding could result in the loss of our rights to a patent or invention. If our licensors do not protect our rights under our license agreements with them or do not reasonably consent to our sublicense of rights or if these license agreements are terminated, we may lose revenue and expend significant resources defending our rights. We have licensed from GSK worldwide rights, excluding Japan, to an antiviral compound, maribavir, for the prevention and treatment of CMV infections related to transplant, including solid organ and hematopoietic stem cell/bone marrow transplantation, congenital transmission, and in patients with HIV infection. This compound and a related compound are subject to patents and patent applications in a variety of countries throughout the world. We have licensed from Sanofi-Aventis the exclusive U.S. and Canadian rights to certain antiviral agents for use in picornavirus indications, which are the subject of U.S. and Canadian patents and patent applications owned by Sanofi-Aventis, certain of which describe pleconaril and others of which describe compounds that are either related to pleconaril or have antiviral activity. We sublicensed our rights under these patents to Schering-Plough. We depend on GSK and Sanofi-Aventis to prosecute and maintain many of these patents and patent applications and protect such patent rights. Failure by GSK or Sanofi-Aventis to prosecute or maintain such patents or patent applications and protect such patent rights could lead to our loss of revenue. Under certain circumstances, our ability to sublicense our rights under these license agreements is subject to the licensor’s consent. If our license agreements with GSK and Sanofi-Aventis are terminated, our ability to manufacture, develop, market and sell products under those agreements would terminate. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our ability to compete. We are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel, including our President and CEO, Vincent J. Milano, our Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Daniel B. Soland, our Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Charles Rowland, our Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer, Colin Broom, our Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs and Quality, Robert Pietrusko and our Vice President, Strategic Initiatives, Thomas Doyle. Our ability to grow and expand into new areas and activities will require additional expertise and the addition of new qualified personnel in both the United States and Europe. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field. Therefore, we 34 Table of Contents may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Furthermore, we have not entered into non-competition agreements or employment agreements with our key employees. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would harm our development programs, and our ability to manage day-to-day operations, attract collaboration partners, attract and retain other employees and generate revenues. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. Even after regulatory approval is received, as with Vancocin and Cinryze, if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our approved products, they could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Vancocin and Cinryze are, and any other product for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authority will be, subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. After approval of a product, we will have, and with Vancocin and Cinryze, we currently have, significant ongoing regulatory compliance obligations related to manufacturing processes, quality control, labeling, post-approval clinical data collection and promotional activities for each such product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in penalties or other actions, including: • warning letters; • class restrictions or “black-box” warnings • fines; • product recalls; • withdrawal of regulatory approval; • operating restrictions, including restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; • disgorgement of profits; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. As part of the approval for Cinryze, we are required to conduct a clinical study designed to evaluate safety, including thrombotic adverse events, efficacy and immunogenicity of higher than labeled doses of Cinryze for routine prophylaxis. Collection and periodic reporting of CMC data also have been requested as a post-approval commitment. In the event we are unable to comply with these requirements and commitments, we may be subject to penalties or other actions. Over the past few years, a significant number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of inquiries and investigations by various federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities, including the DOJ and various U.S. Attorney’s Offices, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA, the FTC and various state Attorneys General offices. These investigations have alleged violations of various federal and state laws and regulations, including claims asserting antitrust violations, violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the False Claims Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, anti-kickback laws, and other alleged violations in connection with off-label promotion of products, pricing and Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement. It is both costly and time-consuming for us to comply with these extensive regulations to which it is subject. Additionally, incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to withdrawal of a product from the market. Companies may not promote drugs for “off-label” uses — that is, uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA. Physicians may prescribe drug products for off-label uses, and such off-label uses are common across some medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician’s choice of treatments, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act and FDA regulations restrict communications on 35 Table of Contents the subject of off-label uses of drug products by pharmaceutical companies. The Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) and FDA both actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the OIG and the FDA allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning their products. Although we believe that all of our communications regarding all of our products are in compliance with the relevant legal requirements, the OIG or the FDA may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management’s attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged. The FDA provides guidelines with respect to appropriate promotion and continuing medical and health education activities. Although we endeavor to follow these guidelines, the FDA or the OIG may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Should the government choose to initiate action against us, we could face substantial penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, management’s attention could be diverted and our reputation could be damaged. In addition, anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, or pay any remuneration in exchange for purchasing, leasing or ordering any service or items including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug for which payment may be made under a federal health care program. Because of the sweeping language of the federal anti-kickback statute, many potentially beneficial business arrangements would be prohibited if the statute were strictly applied. To avoid this outcome, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has published regulations – known as “safe harbors” – that identify exceptions or exemptions to the statute’s prohibitions. Arrangements that do not fit within the safe harbors are not automatically deemed to be illegal, but must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis for compliance with the statute. We seek to comply with anti-kickback statutes and to fit within one of the defined “safe harbors”. However, due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of uniform guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, there can be no assurance that our practices will not be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. Violations of such restrictions may be punishable by civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from U.S. federal healthcare programs (including Medicaid and Medicare). Any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, several states and localities, including California, the District of Columbia, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Vermont, and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered by the federal government and other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. If we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. Any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. Our future product revenues from sales of Vancocin and Cinryze could be reduced by imports from countries where similar products are available at lower prices. Vancocin has been approved for sale outside of the U.S., including but not limited to Canada, Brazil and Europe, and Lilly or its licensees continue to market Vancocin outside of the U.S. There are products similar to Cinryze which are approved in the E.U. There have been cases in which pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in markets outside the U.S. and then imported to the United States where they could be resold at prices higher than the original discounted price, but lower than the prices commercially available in the U.S. If this happens with Vancocin or Cinryze our revenues would be adversely affected. Additionally, there are non-U.S., Internet-based companies supplying Vancocin directly to patients at significantly reduced prices. In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in the U.S. Congress and in some state legislatures that would authorize re-importation of pharmaceutical products into the U.S. from other countries including Canada. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, which if adopted, could result in increased competition for our products and lower prices. 36 Table of Contents Risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. We are engaged in clinical trials and have employees located in Europe, are establishing manufacturing relationships, and are seeking approval for our drug candidate maribavir in Europe. We may also establish our own commercial sales and marketing personnel in Europe. In the future, we may enter into distribution arrangements with third parties to market our products and product candidates in countries outside of the United States and Europe. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. Risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: • differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; • changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; • compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country; • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and • business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations. If we are not successful in integrating Lev into our business, then the benefits of the acquisition will not be fully realized and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. We may not achieve successful integration of the Lev assets in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the benefits acquisition to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. The successful integration of Lev will require, among other things, integration of Lev’s assets into our operations. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of our management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results as a result, adversely affect the market price of we common stock. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of accounting methods may adversely affect the market value of our common stock as a result of the acquisition of Lev. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 141, Business Combinations, the total initial purchase price is allocated to Lev’s net tangible assets or identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the merger. We will incur additional amortization expense based on the identifiable amortizable intangible assets acquired pursuant to the merger agreement and their relative useful lives. These amortization charges will have a material impact on our results of operations, and therefore could have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. 37 Table of Contents If Lev stockholders sell the ViroPharma common stock received as consideration in connection with the merger, such sales could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. We issued approximately 7,359,667 shares of our common stock, or approximately 10.5% of the number of outstanding shares of our common stock currently in the public market, to Lev stockholders in connection with the merger. The issuance of the common stock may result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock, including a stock price decline. The common stock issued by us in connection with the merger was registered with the SEC. As a result, such registered shares are immediately available for resale in the public market. If this occurs, or if other holders of our common stock sell significant amounts of our common stock immediately after the merger is completed, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2008 is $250.0 million. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, because: • a portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make a payment on the senior convertible notes, we could be in default on the senior convertible notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. Conversely, a default on our other outstanding indebtedness may cause a default under the senior convertible notes. We have two future liabilities in the form of contingent value payments to the former stockholders of Lev upon the achievement of regulatory and commercial targets. The first CVR payment of $0.50 per share (or $87.5 million) would become payable when either (i) Cinryze is approved by the FDA for acute treatment of HAE and the FDA grants orphan exclusivity for Cinryze encompassing the acute treatment of HAE to the exclusion of all other human C1 inhibitor products or, (ii) orphan exclusivity for the acute treatment of HAE has not become effective for any third party’s human C1 inhibitor product by October 21, 2010. The second CVR payment of $0.50 per share ($87.5 million) would become payable when Cinryze reaches at least $600 million in cumulative net product sales within 10 years of closing of the acquisition. We cannot predict if or when these payments may be payable or if they could materially adversely affect our business at the time of payment. Our stock price could continue to be volatile. Our stock price, like the market price of the stock of other pharmaceutical companies, has been volatile. For example, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, the market price for our common stock fluctuated between $15.09 and $8.18 per share and has fluctuated between $14.15 and $4.15 through February 27, 2009, following the announcement of the results of our clinical trial results relating to maribavir. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market for our common stock: • period to period fluctuations in sales of Vancocin; • approvals of generic products that compete with Vancocin; • our ability to successfully commercialize Cinryze; • results of clinical trials with respect to our product candidates in development or those of our competitors, such as the February 2009 clinical trial results relating to maribavir; 38 Table of Contents • developments with our collaborators; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; • litigation or public concern relating to our products or our competitors’ products; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights of our or its competitors (including related litigation); • any other future announcements concerning we or its competitors; • any announcement regarding our acquisition of product candidates or entities; • future announcements concerning our industry; • governmental regulation; • changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws and related regulations; • actions or decisions by the SEC, the FDA or other regulatory agencies; • changes or announcements of changes in reimbursement policies; • period to period fluctuations in our operating results, including changes in accounting estimates; • our cash and cash equivalents balances; • changes in our capital structure; • changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • market conditions applicable to our business sector; and • general market conditions. As of February 25, 2009 our market capitalization is less than our book value. As a result, we may be required to take a significant non-cash goodwill impairment charge and may be required to write off goodwill or other intangible assets in the future. If we are required to write off goodwill or other intangible assets, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Goodwill represents cost in excess of the fair value of net tangible and identifiable net intangible assets acquired in business combinations. Based on the guidance of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), we will perform a test for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived assets if impairment indicators or other triggering events arise during the year. As such, in accordance with SFAS 142, as of March 31, 2009, we may have to perform a goodwill impairment test based on a triggering event resulting from the significant decrease in the price of our outstanding common stock during the first quarter 2009. As our market capitalization currently is less than the book value of our assets, depending upon the trading price of our common stock on March 31, 2009, such goodwill impairment test may cause us to take a non-cash goodwill impairment charge and we may be required to write off goodwill or other intangible assets in the future. The carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. 39 Table of Contents The rights that have been and may in the future be granted to holders of our common or preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of other stockholders and may discourage a takeover. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 4,800,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, privileges and other terms of such shares. Our board of directors may exercise this authority without the approval of, or notice to, our stockholders. Accordingly, the rights of the holders of our common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock in order to effect a change in control or replace our current management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The application of Section 203 could also delay or prevent a third party or a significant stockholder of ours from acquiring control of us or replacing its current management. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Generally, a business combination includes a merger, asset or stock sale, or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Under Delaware law, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. In addition, our charter and bylaws contain certain provisions that could discourage a hostile takeover, such as a staggered board of directors and significant notice provisions for nominations of directors and proposals. Our charter and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock in order to effect a change in control or replace our current management. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the senior convertible notes and our common stock. In connection with the issuance of the senior convertible senior notes, we have entered into privately-negotiated transactions with two counterparties, or the counterparties, comprised of purchased call options and warrants sold. These transactions are expected to generally reduce the potential equity dilution of our common stock upon conversion of the senior convertible notes. In connection with establishing their initial hedge of these transactions, the counterparties may have entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly after, the pricing of the senior convertible notes. These activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the price of our common stock concurrently with or following the pricing of the senior convertible notes. In addition, the counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may modify their hedge positions following the pricing of the senior convertible notes from time to time by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or by purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock or could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our common stock. Additionally, these transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. We manage our exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific minimum credit standards, and diversification of counterparties. The potential effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the senior convertible notes or the shares of our common stock. In addition, we do not make any representation that the counterparties will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice. The fundamental change purchase feature of the senior convertible notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company. The terms of the senior convertible notes require us to purchase the senior convertible notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change. A takeover of our company would trigger the requirement that we purchase the senior convertible notes. Alternatively, if certain transactions that constitute a fundamental change occur, under certain circumstances, we will increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of our common stock to compensate holders for the lost option 40 Table of Contents time value of the senior convertible notes as a result of such transaction. This increased conversion rate will apply only to holders who convert their senior convertible notes in connection with any such transaction. The number of the additional shares of our common stock will be determined based on the date on which the transaction becomes effective and the price paid per share of our common stock. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 