Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the specific risk factors set forth below and other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. You should note that the risks described below are not the only risks that we face. The risks listed below are only those risks relating to our operations that we consider to be material. There may be additional risks, that we currently consider not to be material, or which we are not currently aware of, that could have an adverse effect on our future results. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Company and our Industry Our success depends on our ability to manage our growth. We recently experienced a period of rapid growth from acquisitions. This growth has placed significant demands on our human and financial resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information controls and systems and effectively motivate, train and manage our employees to properly manage this growth. Even if these steps are taken, we cannot be sure that our recent acquisitions will be integrated successfully into our business operations. Our future performance is dependent on management’s ability to manage our growth effectively. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create. The process of expanding our fleet of ships may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require management attention that would otherwise be available for the operation of our existing ships. In addition, if we do not manage this growth effectively, maintain the quality of our businesses despite the demands on our resources and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed. Prior to our acquisition of cruise related assets and businesses in 2006 and our acquisition of Bellingham Marine in 2006, we had no experience in operating a cruise business or marina construction business. Our recent cruise and marina construction acquisitions expose us to new risks associated with entering new lines of business that we have limited or no experience operating. We anticipate that there may be many things we will need to learn and master to be successful in these new endeavors. Moreover, we have a limited operating history within our cruise and marine segments, which may make it difficult to predict our long-term success. Failure to successfully manage the risks associated with the development and implementation of new lines of business could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our recent growth has been driven by acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates in the future. Our recent growth is attributable to the acquisition of American West, the cruise-related assets of Delta Queen and Bellingham Marine. In the future, a significant element of our business strategy will be to acquire assets or businesses that are complementary to our businesses. We compete for acquisition opportunities with other companies, many of which have greater name recognition, marketing support and financial resources than we have, which may result in a diminished number of acquisition opportunities available to us and higher acquisition prices. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify, pursue or acquire any targeted businesses or make any acquisitions on terms favorable to us. If we fail to identify and complete acquisitions in the future, our growth and financial performance will be adversely affected. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the companies and businesses that we acquire, including our acquisitions of American West, the cruise-related assets of Delta Queen, Windstar Cruises and Bellingham Marine. As part of our business strategy, we regularly consider and, as appropriate, make acquisitions of assets and businesses that we believe are complementary to our business. Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel, and assets of the companies acquired, some of which may result in significant charges to earnings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses without substantial costs, delays and/or other operational or financial problems. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks in addition to those described above. These risks include: • the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; 9 Table of Contents • the potential loss of key employees; • potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; • the ability of management to effectively and efficiently manage the new operations we acquire; and • adverse effects on our reported operating results due to acquisition costs and expenses associated with integrating and assimilating the operations of the acquired businesses. If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing businesses, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the market price of our stock. In addition, a substantial portion of our available cash could be used in order to consummate potential acquisitions of businesses. We may also seek to finance such acquisitions through debt or equity financings. There can be no assurance that such financings will be available at all or on terms acceptable to us. If the consideration for an acquisition includes equity securities, our stockholders could experience dilution. In connection with our acquisitions within the cruise segment, we assumed or incurred a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our cash flows and business. In connection with our recent acquisitions of American West and the cruise-related assets of Delta Queen, we assumed a significant amount of indebtedness in amounts that have greatly exceeded our historical levels of indebtedness. We assumed approximately $41.5 million in fixed-rate, 4.63% debt payable through 2028 in connection with our acquisition of American West. We also assumed approximately $35.0 million of fixed-rate, 6.5% debt payable through 2020 as a result of our acquisition of the cruise-related assets of Delta Queen. We also anticipate an additional $60 million in seller financing from our acquisition of Windstar Cruises, payable at 7% through 2017. As a result of this debt, demands on our cash resources will increase in the future. The increased levels of debt could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to, and limit flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; • adversely affect our credit rating; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the repayment of debt. If we are unable to manage our financial resources during our expansion, our financial performance may be adversely affected. Our plans for growth and expansion will require significant capital expenditures that may not produce corresponding revenues in the near term, which may place a strain on our capital resources. The process of expanding our fleet of ships may require additional financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing operation of our existing fleet of ships. Our failure to manage our financial resources effectively during our expansion could force us to delay or abandon some of our expansion plans and may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our financial performance is subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations. Our businesses are seasonal. We recognize cruise related revenues at the completion of the cruise. We recognize revenue for marine and related services in accordance with the respective contracts. We recognize travel, incentive and event related revenues in the month a program operates. Insurance premiums are recognized as revenue over the period of the insurance contracts in proportion to the amount of the insurance coverage provided. Historically, the majority of our operating results were recognized in the first and second quarters of each fiscal year. As a result of the acquisitions within our cruise segment and the size of our cruise operations in relation to our overall operations, we expect that the majority of our operating results will be recognized in the second and third quarters of each fiscal year, which coincides with the cruising season. Our future annual results could be adversely affected if our revenue were to be substantially below seasonal norms during the second and third quarters of each fiscal year. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: • our ability to effectively and efficiently operate our cruise operations; • customer cancellation rates; • competitive conditions in the industries in which we operate; • marketing expenses; • extreme weather conditions; • timing of and costs related to acquisitions; • the impact of new laws and regulations affecting our business; • negative incidents involving cruise ships, including those involving the health and safety of passengers; • cruise ship maintenance problems; • reduced consumer demand for vacations and cruise vacations; • changes in fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs; • the availability of raw materials; • our ability to enter into profitable marina construction contracts; • changes in relationships with certain travel providers; • changes in vacation industry capacity; • the mix of programs and events, program destinations and event locations; • the introduction and acceptance of new programs and program and event enhancements by us and our competitors; • other economic factors and other considerations affecting the travel industry; • potential claims related to our reinsurance business; and • the potentially volatile nature of the reinsurance business. As a result of these and other factors, our operations and financial condition could suffer, which could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively compete against our competitors, our financial conditions will suffer. The cruise, marine and travel industries are highly competitive. We compete with other companies that provide similar products and services. We believe the barriers to entry within some of the industries in which we operate are relatively low. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do. As a result, there can be no assurance that our present competitors or competitors that elect to enter the marketplace in the future will not exert significant competitive pressures on us. These competitive factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by events adversely affecting the travel industry, including the affects of general economic conditions. A substantial portion of our operations are directly associated with the travel industry. Demand for travel and vacations is dependent on the underlying strength of the economy. As a result, our operations are subject to 11 Table of Contents special risks inherent in doing business in that industry. Adverse changes in the economic climate, such as higher fuel prices, higher interest rates and changes in governmental policies could reduce the discretionary income of our potential cruise passengers or companies scheduling conventions, trade shows or meetings. Consequently, this could negatively affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, and for travel, events or conventions, all of which are discretionary purchases. In addition, the travel industry is highly susceptible to unforeseen events, such as wars, acts of terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, governmental activities and deprivation of contract rights. Demand for our products and services may also be adversely affected by natural occurrences such as hurricanes, earthquakes, epidemics and flooding in regions in which we offer our products and provide our services. Periods of instability or uncertainty surrounding the travel industry may reduce the demand for our programs and services and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market. As a result of our cruise acquisitions, we operate in the vacation market, and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators which provide other leisure options, including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. We face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to cruise passengers. In the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our success is highly dependent upon unaffiliated travel services suppliers. In order to provide our services and products, we are dependent on airlines, hotels and other suppliers of travel and processing services. We have limited agreements with our travel suppliers and vendors that obligate such suppliers or vendors to process or sell services or products through us. We rely to a large extent on scheduled commercial airline services to get our customers to our cruise ships and, therefore, increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service, could undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages. Restricted access to suppliers and vendors of travel services and processing, or a reduction in capacity or changes in pricing or collateral arrangements with travel suppliers or vendors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overcapacity within the cruise vacation industry, a reduction in demand or economic uncertainties could have a negative impact on revenues, result in impairment of assets and may adversely affect profitability. Cruising capacity has grown in recent years and we expect it to increase further as cruise vacation companies introduce new ships. Demand for cruises has been and is expected to continue to be dependent on economic conditions. Economic changes may reduce demand for cruise vacations and may lead to reduced occupancy and/or price discounting which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and could result in impairment of our asset values. Our business could be adversely affected by unanticipated casualty losses. Due to the nature of our businesses, we may be subject to liability claims arising out of accidents or disasters causing injury to our customers, including claims for serious personal injury or death. Although we have never experienced a liability loss for which we did not have adequate insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims or that the insurance carrier will be solvent at the time of any covered loss. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at acceptable premium levels in the future. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large uninsured claims, or of one or a series of claims exceeding our insurance, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents No assurance can be given that our insurance costs will not escalate. Our protection and indemnity insurance, or P&I, is provided by various mutual protection and indemnity associations. As associations, they rely on member premiums, investment reserves and income, and reinsurance to manage liability risks on behalf of their members. Increased investment losses, underwriting losses or reinsurance costs could cause domestic or international marine insurance associations to substantially raise the cost of premiums, resulting not only in higher premium costs, but also higher levels of deductibles. Increases in our premiums or deductible levels could adversely impact our operating costs. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have any long-term employment agreements with our executive officers, other than with our Chairman and CEO. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. International political and other world events affecting safety and security could adversely affect the demand for cruises and could harm our future sales and profitability. Demand for cruises and other vacation options has been, and is expected to continue to be, affected by the public’s attitude towards the safety and security of travel. Events such as the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001 and the threats of additional attacks in the U.S. and elsewhere, concerns of an outbreak of additional hostilities and national government travel advisories, together with the resulting political instability and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling, have had a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry and may continue to do so in the future. Decreases in demand could lead to price discounting which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could adversely affect our reputation and harm our future sales and profitability. The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, including those caused by the improper operation of our ships, passenger and crew illnesses such as the spread of contagious diseases, mechanical failures, fires, collisions, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior, weather events, security breaches and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely affect future industry performance and expose us to claims by those that may be harmed. For example, our Empress of the North ran aground in March 2006 during a cruise which required us to cancel three cruises, and we experienced an outbreak of Norovirus on our Mississippi Queen® in October 2006 which required us to cancel three cruises. It is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, events such as terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities, or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as storms and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently have an adverse impact on our profitability. Ship mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises and unscheduled drydocks and repairs. Our cruise ships have from time to time experienced mechanical problems or extended or extraordinary maintenance and there can be no assurance that they will not experience such problems in the future. Mechanical faults or extended maintenance may result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs. For example, our Queen of the West experienced an engine failure in September 2006, 13 Table of Contents causing us to cancel one cruise. These events together with any related adverse publicity could affect our financial results. Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our profits. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local government regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities. Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our profits. The nature of our engineering and construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes which may reduce our profits. We engage in construction activities for marina facilities where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. We and/or our subsidiaries have been and may in the future be named as a defendant in legal proceedings where parties may make a claim for damages or other remedies with respect to our projects or other matters. These claims generally arise in the normal course of our business. When it is determined that we have liability, we may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of these liabilities may exceed our policy limits. In addition, even where insurance is maintained for such exposures, the policies have deductibles resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to any such claims. Any liability not covered by our insurance, in excess of our insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in a significant loss for us, which claims may reduce our profits and cash available for operations. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. Our ability to conduct and expand our marina construction operations is dependent on access to construction materials and skilled labor. Increased costs or shortages of materials such as cement, aluminum and wood could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. Labor disputes or increased costs or shortages of skilled labor could also cause increases in costs and delays. These prices and supplies may be further adversely affected by natural disasters and adverse weather conditions. We estimate and forecast such costs as part of our business, and attempt to plan for possible cost increases due to changes in the cost or availability of materials or labor. However, generally we are unable to pass on unanticipated increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the project at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction work. Significant unexpected increases in costs of materials or labor may adversely affect our results of operations. The demand, timing and funding of marina construction awards and other factors could lead to unpredictable operating results. Our marina construction operations are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with changing demand for marina construction projects, the timing and funding of new projects, the length of time over which construction contracts are to be performed, the ability to meet performance schedules, cost overruns and cancellations or changes in the scope of existing contracts. As a result of these uncertainties, the operating results related to our marine business could be unpredictable and inconsistent from period to period. We may incur increased costs related to repairing defects in marinas we design and construct. Our marina construction operations are subject to warranty and other claims related to design and construction defects and related issues, including compliance with construction codes. The costs we incur to resolve those 14 Table of Contents warranties and other claims could reduce our profitability, and if we were to experience an unusually high level of claims, or unusually severe claims, our profitability could be adversely affected. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of projects we are able to pursue. As is customary in the marina construction industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in relationship to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. Since 2001, the surety industry has undergone significant changes with several companies withdrawing completely from the industry or significantly reducing their bonding commitment. In addition, certain reinsurers of surety risk have limited their participation in this market. Therefore, we could be unable to obtain surety bonds, when required, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and revenues. Natural disasters, severe weather conditions and forces in nature beyond our control could impact our marina construction and management operations. Our marina construction and management operations are conducted in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, tsunamis and fires. We also may be affected by unforeseen engineering, environmental, or geological problems. These conditions could delay or increase the cost of construction projects, damage or reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for marinas in affected areas. If our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity and capital resources could be adversely affected. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues or profits. Under our accounting procedures, we measure and recognize our marina construction profits and revenues under the percentage of completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows us to recognize revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract by comparing the amount of the costs incurred to date against the total amount of costs expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated, and these revisions can occur at any time and could be material. Given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Unexpected and adverse changes in the foreign countries in which we operate could result in project disruptions, increased costs and potential losses. Our business is subject to fluctuations in demand and to changing domestic and international economic and political conditions which are beyond our control. In our marine operations we currently operate in Australia, Spain, New Zealand, France, United Kingdom, Mexico, Canada, Bahamas, Malaysia and China. With the addition of Windstar Cruises, we will offer itineraries with destinations to Costa Rica, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Turkey, Italy, France, British Virgin Islands, Barbados, French West Indies, Grenada and other foreign ports of call. We anticipate that our foreign destinations will change and expand over time. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks including: • abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations; • embargoes; • trade restrictions; • tax increases; 15 Table of Contents • United States government policies; and • international hostilities. We also face significant risks due to civil strife, acts of war, terrorism and insurrection. Our level of exposure to these risks will vary with respect to each project, depending on the particular stage of each such project. For example, our risk exposure with respect to a marina construction project in an early development stage will generally be less than our risk exposure with respect to a project in the middle of construction. To the extent that our international business is affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience project disruptions and losses. Project disruptions and losses could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. Our international operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could increase our U.S. dollar costs or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues. Our international contracts are typically denominated in foreign currencies, which results in our foreign operations facing the additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits. If we do not complete drydocking on schedule or within budget, or if any of our ships require unscheduled repairs, our revenues may be adversely impacted. Operation of our ships is subject to regulations established by the U.S. Department of Transportation that are enforced by the U.S. Coast Guard and other international class societies. Among these regulations is the requirement that the ships be taken out of operation and removed from the water for inspection of the exterior of the hull on a periodic basis, referred to as drydocking. When we drydock one of our ships as required, we lose the revenue from that ship’s operations for the period it is out of service. We also incur the additional cost of the drydocking. Our ships must be drydocked every 12-30 months, dependent upon the ship type. We typically drydock our domestic ships in the winter months when they are typically out of operation due to limited demand. We anticipate drydocking our international ships at preplanned times of low demand. In years that we are not required to drydock our ships, we may remove each of them from service to perform routine repairs and maintenance and capital projects. We refer to the period that each ship is removed from service as a lay-up. We cannot assure that future drydocks or lay-ups for any of our ships will be completed on schedule or within their budgets. Unscheduled repairs could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and our financial condition. We may face significant costs to maintain our ships as they age. We believe that the costs to maintain our fleet of ships will increase over time. Excluding the Windstar Cruises ships and our Delta Queen® ship which is 80 years old, the average age of our ships is approximately 16 years. We expect to incur increasing expenses to operate and maintain our ships in good condition as they age. Eventually, these ships will need to be replaced. We may not be able to replace these ships with new ships based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. We may be unable to extend our ability to operate the Delta Queen® beyond November 1, 2008. Since 1968, Congress has granted the Delta Queen® eight consecutive exemptions from the Safety at Sea Act requirement because of fire prevention and safety enhancements made to the ship and the historic status of the Delta Queen®. The statute exempting the Delta Queen® requires us to notify potential passengers that the Delta Queen® does not comply with applicable fire standards and prohibits us from disclaiming liability for loss due to fire caused by our negligence. The current exemption has been extended to November 1, 2008. Our ability to 16 Table of Contents operate the Delta Queen® is dependent upon retaining our current Congressional exemption and obtaining additional exemptions subsequent to 2008. If we experience delays and/or defaults in customer payments, we could suffer liquidity problems or we could be unable to recover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our marina construction contracts, at times we commit resources to marina projects prior to receiving payments from the customer in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on client projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment. If a customer defaults in making its payments on a project in which we have devoted significant resources, it could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by losses associated with our reinsurance operations. We currently reinsure property and casualty risks written by licensed U.S. insurers. The lines of business that are being reinsured include commercial auto liability, commercial physical damage and workers’ compensation. If a loss event occurs and we are required by our agreements to cover such losses, the amount of our cash and cash equivalents will be reduced, and our results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility, tax and maritime legislation and regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. The United States, Canada and various state government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies that could adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. Some environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. Current and future environmental laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or to ship discharges, could increase our cost of compliance or otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards onboard our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers. These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities. This could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. Pursuant to the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, as of January 23, 2007, United States citizens will be required to carry a passport or, if available, a People Access Security Service (“PASS”) card, for travel by land or sea to or from certain countries and areas that are currently exempt from passport requirements, such as the Caribbean, Canada and Mexico. The State Department and the Department of Homeland Security are collaborating on the development of the PASS card system. The PASS card is a secure credential that verifies the citizenship and identity of U.S. nationals who re-enter the United States and is seen as a less expensive alternative to a passport. Since many cruise customers visiting these destinations may not currently have passports or may not obtain a PASS card if and when available, it is likely that this will have some negative effect on our bookings and future net revenue yields when the regulations take effect. There are a number of factors that could influence the ultimate impact of these regulations, such as customer travel patterns, the cost and ease of obtaining PASS cards, customer price sensitivity and the cost and effectiveness of mitigating programs we and others have established or will establish. Recently, the State of Alaska instituted new state taxes and operating regulations which will impact the cruise industry operating in Alaska, and could result in a reduction in demand for Alaska cruises. It is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that we regularly visit may decide to also assess new taxes specifically 17 Table of Contents targeted to the cruise industry, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises and ultimately decrease our net revenue yields. Due to the size of our ships operating in Alaska at this time, we are not currently impacted by these new taxes or operating regulations. However, there is no guaranty that these size requirements will not be reduced or similar actions enacted in other waters in which we operate or may operate within the future. Increases in operating, financing and tax costs could adversely affect our results because we may not be able to recover these increased costs through price increases of our cruise vacations. We are subject to various statutory and regulatory directives in the United States addressing homeland security concerns that may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. Various government agencies within the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) including the Transportation Security Administration, the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, have adopted, and may adopt in the future, new rules, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, rules, policies or regulations, compliance with which could increase our costs or result in loss of revenue. The Coast Guard’s new maritime security regulations, issued pursuant to the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, require us to operate our ships and facilities pursuant to both the maritime security regulations and approved security plans. Our ships and facilities are subject to periodic security compliance verification examinations by the Coast Guard. A failure to operate in accordance with the maritime security regulations or the approved security plan may result in the imposition of a fine or control and compliance measures, including the suspension or revocation of the security plan, thereby making the ship or facility ineligible to operate. We are also required to audit these security plans on an annual basis and, if necessary, submit amendments to the Coast Guard for their review and approval. Failure to timely submit the necessary amendments may lead to the imposition of the fines and control and compliance measures mentioned above. Failure to meet the requirements of the maritime security regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. DHS may adopt additional security-related regulations, including new requirements for screening of passengers and our reimbursement to the agency for the cost of security services. These new security-related regulations could have an adverse impact on our ability to efficiently process passengers or could increase our operating costs. U.S. maritime laws restrict foreign ownership of our stock, and the repeal, suspension or substantial amendment of these laws could increase competition on inland waterways and have a material adverse effect on our business. U.S. maritime laws require that, to be eligible to operate a ship transporting non-proprietary cargo on United States inland waterways, the company that owns the ship must be controlled and 75% owned by United States citizens at each tier of its ownership. Such laws therefore restrict, directly or indirectly, foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the ships which we operate on the inland waterways. If we at any point cease to be 75% owned by U.S. citizens, we may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our inland waterways operations. We are currently in compliance with these ownership provisions. U.S. maritime laws continue to be in effect and supported by the U.S. Congress and the current administration. However, we cannot assure you that such laws will not be repealed, suspended or amended in the future. If these laws were to be repealed, suspended or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs were to enter the inland waterways market, our business likely would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our advantages as a United States citizen operator of U.S. ships could be eroded over time as there continue to be periodic efforts and attempts by foreign investors to circumvent certain aspects of U.S. maritime laws. 18 Table of Contents Our employees are covered by federal maritime laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Many of our cruise segment employees are covered by federal maritime laws, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act and the Seaman’s Wage Act. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal court. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these employees, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees than is customary in the individual states. Past and future environmental, safety and health regulations could impose significant additional costs on us that reduce our profits. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and health and safety regulations. Our projects can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials which, if improperly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities. It is impossible to reliably predict the full nature and effect of judicial, legislative or regulatory developments relating to health and safety regulations and environmental protection regulations applicable to our operations. The applicable regulations, as well as the technology and length of time available to comply with those regulations, continue to develop and change. In addition, our past activities could also have a material impact on us. The Federal Maritime Commission regulates passenger ships with 50 or more passenger berths departing from U.S. ports and requires that operators post security to be used in the event the operator fails to provide cruise services, or otherwise satisfy certain financial standards. We have secured a $15 million surety bond as security under the Federal Maritime Commission. Our ability to secure such a security instrument in the future may result in undue burden on the part of the Company and may require that we make additional financial deposits directly with the Federal Maritime Commission in proportion with advance passenger deposits received. We currently maintain liquor licenses in various states for our ships. We do not anticipate any material expenses or other material adverse developments with respect to these licenses or future renewals. However, in the event such developments do occur, we may be required to restrict the sale of alcoholic beverages on all or portions of our cruises. In connection with these applications or otherwise, we may be required to become qualified to do business in, or to pay or remit various types of taxes or fees to, certain states or political subdivisions thereof. In addition, we may be subject to fines or other penalties for failure to comply with laws and regulations of one or more states requiring licensing, qualification or other action. Neither the cost of compliance by us with such regulations, nor the penalties imposed or sought to be imposed on us for noncompliance have been material in the past. However, no assurance can be given that such costs or penalties may not increase or become material in the future. Risks Related to the Windstar Cruises Acquisition The failure to successfully integrate Windstar Cruises’ business and operations in the expected time frame, or at all, may adversely affect our future results. We believe that the acquisition of Windstar Cruises will result in certain benefits, including the addition of international cruise operations. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully integrate Windstar Cruises. The success of the acquisition will depend on our ability to realize these anticipated benefits. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: • failure to successfully manage relationships with customers; • diversion of management resources from our business to integration-related issues; 19 Table of Contents • potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial systems; and • failure to successfully manage and operate the business through third party management contracts. As a result, the integration may result in additional and unforeseen delays and expenses. Further, the size of the transaction may make the integration difficult, expensive and disruptive, adversely affecting our revenues and earnings, and implementation of integration efforts may divert management’s attention from other strategic priorities. If we are not able to successfully integrate Windstar Cruises’ business and operations, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The Windstar Cruises acquisition is subject to certain closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the acquisition not being completed, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The acquisition is subject to customary conditions at closing, including approval by the Federal Trade Commission. If any condition to the acquisition is not satisfied or, if permissible, waived, the acquisition will not be completed. In addition, we or Holland America Line, a division of Carnival Corporation, may terminate the purchase agreement in certain circumstances. If we and Holland America Line do not complete the acquisition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate to the extent that the current market prices of those shares reflect a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed. We will also be obligated to pay certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and related expenses in connection with the acquisition, whether or not the acquisition is completed. Furthermore, if the acquisition is not consummated because we have breached the purchase agreement, including for failure to obtain sufficient financing, we may be required to pay damages to Holland America Line. In addition, we have diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the acquisition. If the acquisition is not completed, we will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure and Stock We may not be able to fulfill our dividend policy in the future On September 2, 2003, our board of directors adopted a dividend policy paying stockholders $0.40 per share annually, distributable at $0.10 per share on a quarterly basis. Dividend payments, however, are not guaranteed and our board of directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to pay dividends. In the future we may not be able to pay or maintain dividends. We also may not be able to maintain our current level of dividends or increase them over time. We intend to continue to pay dividends to our stockholders in accordance with our dividend policy; however, our ability to pay, maintain or expand cash dividends to our stockholders and to execute our dividend policy is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors. We may not have the necessary funds to pay dividends on our common stock. We will require continuing, significant cash flow in order for us to make payments of regular dividends to our stockholders in accordance with our dividend policy. Further, the payment of cash dividends, if any, depends on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Moreover, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Some of the factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. Rising interest rates may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Because we have a dividend policy providing for the payment of regular dividends to our stockholders, interest rates may affect, at times significantly, the market price of our common stock. In general, as interest rates increase, the market price of our common stock could decline. Interest rates remain at moderate levels and, therefore, the value of our common stock may decline if interest rates rise in the future. 20 Table of Contents We have only a limited history of paying cash dividends on our common stock and we currently intend to retain a substantial portion of our future earnings, if any, to make payments of principal and interest on our substantial indebtedness and to fund the development and growth of our businesses. The failure to maintain or pay dividends would adversely affect our share price. We have adopted a dividend policy that reflects our intention to distribute a portion of the cash generated by our business in excess of operating needs, interest and principal payments on our indebtedness and capital expenditures as regular dividends to our stockholders. While we intend to maintain our dividend policy, there can be no assurance as to the amount and frequency of any such dividend or that a dividend will be paid at all or whether our dividend policy will be maintained. If we are unable to fulfill our dividend policy, or pay dividends at levels anticipated by investors, the market price of our shares may be negatively affected. Our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities. Our dividend policy, to the extent implemented, may significantly restrict our cash reserves and may adversely affect our ability to fund unexpected capital expenditures as well as our ability to make interest and principal repayments on indebtedness. Further, our dividend policy, to the extent implemented, may significantly constrain our ability to finance any material expansion of our business or to fund our operations more than if we had retained such cash flow from our operations. In addition, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business, including through acquisitions or increased capital spending, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. As a result, we may be required to borrow additional money or raise capital by issuing equity securities, which may not be possible on attractive terms or at all. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions may delay or prevent the acquisition of us, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. In addition, they may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Provisions in our charter documents may make a change of control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. Having a staggered board of directors would make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. Additionally, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us in certain circumstances. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, 21 Table of Contents subject to specified exceptions, a Delaware corporation shall not engage in business combinations with any entity that acquires enough shares of our common stock without the consent of our board of directors to be considered an “interested stockholder” under Delaware law for a three-year period following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Neither our certificate of incorporation or bylaws contains an election, as permitted by Delaware law, to be exempt from the requirements of Section 203. Anti-takeover and transferability limitations of U.S. ownership requirements may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. One of the requirements for having U.S.-flagged ships operating in U.S. domestic trade is that 75% of our stockholders must be U.S. citizens and that non-U.S. citizens cannot exercise control of us. We have explored adding restrictions to our certificate of incorporation limiting the transferability of our common stock or control to non-U.S. citizens to preserve our U.S.-flagged status. We believe that such limitations may have the effect of decreasing the liquidity of our common stock, thereby making it more difficult for investors to dispose of their shares in an orderly manner. We have also explored adding legends to our stock certificates to indicate the citizenship of our stockholders to facilitate our ability to monitor and control our U.S. citizenship. Such precautions have not been added, but may be put into effect in the near term. Such provisions and the level of ownership by insiders and our largest shareholders, we believe, may deter a change in control and limit non-U.S. citizens’, including corporations and individuals, purchases of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 