Item 1A. Risk Factors Sales Concentration. One customer, Guitar Center, Inc., represents a significant portion of our sales. In 2006, 2005, and 2004, Guitar Center, Inc. accounted for approximately 19%, 17% and 12%, respectively, of our net sales revenues. We anticipate that this customer will continue to represent a significant portion of our sales, however Guitar Center, Inc. is not under any obligation, by contract or otherwise, to continue purchasing products from us. If the relationship with Guitar Center, Inc. were to deteriorate for any reason we could lose a portion of our net sales revenues, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Liquidity and Debt Obligations. We are highly leveraged and maintain a number of credit arrangements that are critical to our growth and to our ongoing operations. These credit agreements include certain financial covenants and ratios and require that we maintain adequate levels of eligible collateral to support our borrowing level. Our substantial debt subjects us to numerous risks, including the following: • we will be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt, thereby reducing cash available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; 5 Table of Contents • our leverage may increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; • our debt service obligations may limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; and • our level of debt may make it difficult for us to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. The agreements also provide, among other matters, restrictions on additional financing, dividends, mergers, acquisitions, and an annual capital expenditure limit. The covenants in these credit agreements may restrict our operations. If we are unable to generate adequate levels of sales and operating profit, our lenders could declare us to be in default of our obligations. As discussed below in greater detail, in February 2007 we notified our senior lender that we were in breach of certain financial covenants in our senior credit facility. We received a forbearance from this lender that continued in effect until we completed the refinancing of our March 30, 2007 credit facility. We believe we will maintain compliance with the terms of our new credit facility and with our other financing arrangements, but if we fail to comply, there is no assurance that the lenders would grant waivers or agree to restructure our debt or that we would be able to obtain other financing. If we default on our debt, our lenders have a variety of remedies against us including accelerating all amounts so that they come due immediately and foreclosing on their security interests, which would allow the creditors to take possession of all of our assets. Moreover, certain of our debt obligations are cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one of the agreements causes a default against each other credit agreement. In such instances, if we were unable to obtain alternate financing in a very short period of time, we may have to suspend or discontinue our operations, liquidate our assets or take other measures that would result in a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. We were in default of certain financial covenants in our senior secured loan facility at December 31, 2006. On March 5, 2007 we entered into a Forbearance and Consent Agreement with Merrill Lynch Capital, a division of Merrill Lynch Business Financial Services Inc. as lender, whereby Merrill Lynch Business Financial Services Inc. agreed to forbear from exercising its rights and remedies for default under the credit facility. The Forbearance and Consent Agreement ended on March 30, 2007, when we refinanced the principal balances owing under this credit facility through a structured financial transaction with Ableco Finance LLC and certain other lenders (including our controlling stockholder) for up to $112 million in the form of a senior secured credit facility. This transaction and the impact to our liquidity are explained in more detail in Note 17 of the accompanying financial statements. Our credit arrangements generally accrue interest based on variable short-term interest rates. Increases in the prime rate or LIBOR would increase our interest expense, which would adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Competition. Our industry is highly competitive, and we face competition from a number of well-known brands including Electro-Voice, Fender, Harman and Yamaha. Some of our competitors are substantially better capitalized and have substantially stronger market presence than we have. We also expect increasing competition from both established and emerging companies. Competition may have the effects of reducing the prices we can charge for our products, increasing our marketing costs associated with developing and maintaining our market niche, or reducing the demand for our products. If we fail to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition, our profitability and financial performance will be adversely affected, and those effects may be material. Acquisitions and Business Combinations. We have acquired businesses in the past, and we may do so in the future. We may pursue additional acquisitions of complementary technologies or product lines. Additionally, after the period covered by this report, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Martin Audio Limited, a British manufacturer of high-end concert hall audio equipment. The purchase price was $33.6 million, plus the assumption of $3.8 million in debt, for a total consideration of $37.4 million. Any additional future acquisitions may pose risks of entering markets where we have no or limited prior experience, the potential loss of key 6 Table of Contents employees of the acquired company, and impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. In addition, international acquisitions could add increased complexity to the Company’s structure. Further acquisitions may also impact our financial position. Acquisitions of businesses organized outside the United States often can involve additional risks, including: • difficulties, as a result of distance, language, legal or cultural differences, in developing, staffing and managing foreign operations; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer payment cycles; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • foreign exchange controls that might limit our control over, or prevent us from repatriating, cash generated outside the United States; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • expropriation or nationalization of assets; • differences in regulatory requirements that may make it difficult to offer all of our services; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties in foreign corporate law that have and may create additional administrative burdens and legal risks; • increased management time and resources to manage overseas operations; • trade barriers and import and export restrictions; and • political or social unrest and economic instability. Further acquisitions may also impact our financial position. For example, we may use significant cash or incur additional debt in these acquisitions, which would weaken our financial position and operating costs related to an acquired company may be higher than operating costs in our current facilities. Thus, there is no guarantee that future acquisitions will improve our business or operating results. Variability in Quarterly Operating Results. Our operating results will vary from quarter to quarter. Revenue in each quarter is substantially dependent on orders received within that quarter as well as product availability. Our expenditures in each quarter are based on investment plans and our best estimates of future revenues. We may, therefore, be unable to reduce spending if revenues decline in a given quarter quickly enough to prevent adverse impacts on our operating results for such quarters. Moreover, results of operations for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Other factors which could cause fluctuations in quarterly results to fluctuate include: • increased competition in niche markets; • timing of new product announcements; • product releases and pricing changes by us or our competitors; • market acceptance or delays in the introduction of new products; • production constraints; • the timing of significant orders; • customers’ budgets; and • changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 7 Table of Contents It is likely that in some quarters our operating results will be adversely affected by these factors. Rapid Technological Change. Product technology in the professional audio and music products market evolves rapidly, making timely product innovation essential to success in the marketplace. The introduction of products with improved technologies or features may render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our products do not perform well, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, new products may contain defects or errors, which may negatively impact the product’s acceptance in the market. Product Liability. Some of our products are electronically powered and may pose a risk of electrical shock or fire. These products, such as amplifiers, speakers and sound mixers, create a risk that our customers or third parties may bring claims that our products have caused property damage, physical injury or death. In extreme cases these claims may be asserted as class actions on behalf of large numbers of people. These types of litigation, if threatened or brought, can be costly to defend and may distract management’s attention from operating our business, whether or not we ultimately are adjudged to be liable and whether or not we settle such an action. Use of Contract Distribution Centers. We store and ship the majority of our products from our Woodinville, Washington and St. Louis, Missouri locations. In addition, we utilize contract distribution centers in Europe and Asia. These distribution centers may encounter personnel issues, business disruptions, information systems outages or other disruptions, which may not be remedied quickly, resulting in delays in shipments of our products. Failure to maintain adequate systems and internal controls at these facilities could result in customer shipments being delayed or otherwise improperly transacted, potentially resulting in lost revenue, products or customers. Use of Contract Manufacturers. The majority of our products are manufactured by contract manufacturers. Contract manufacturing creates additional risks including: • reduction in control over the manufacturing process; • longer lead times for transitions of newly released products from engineering to full release; • lead times for transitions of existing products to new contract manufacturers; • reduced flexibility in reacting to demand changes; • increased transportation cost and delivery times; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates (specifically the “floating” currency rate in China); • delays or inability to source parts on reasonable payment terms; and • concentration of production by certain key manufacturers. Manufacturing in China. Our ability to import products from China at current tariff levels could be materially and adversely affected if the United States terminates the “normal trade relations” (“NTR”, formerly “most favored nation”) status granted to China for trade and tariff purposes. As a result of its NTR status, China receives the same favorable tariff treatment that the United States extends to its other “normal” trading partners. China’s NTR status, coupled with its membership in the World Trade Organization, could eventually reduce barriers to manufacturing products in and exporting products from China. However, we cannot provide any assurance that China’s WTO membership or NTR status will not change. International Operations. We have significant net sales to customers outside the United States and believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. International sales may fluctuate due to various factors, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and taxes; • increases in freight costs, or damage or loss in shipment; 8 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer average payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • product safety and other certification requirements; and • political and economic instability, wars and terrorist activity. Consumer Products Regulations. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations and standards defined by the Federal Communications Commission, the Consumer Products Safety Commission and Underwriters’ Laboratories. Internationally, our products may be required to comply with regulations or standards established by consumer protection or telecommunications authorities in the countries into which we sell our products, as well as standards established by various multinational or extranational bodies. These regulations are becoming more common and the trend is to impose greater restrictions upon products such as ours. For example, the European Union recently adopted a directive on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment, known as RoHs, and has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directive applicable to persons who import electrical or electronic equipment into Europe. Similarly, California has a consumer protection measure that could require us to change certain components so as to eliminate lead from our products. We believe we are in material compliance with all applicable regulations; however, the regulations may expose us to various civil penalties in cases of noncompliance. Moreover, as these regulations are constantly evolving and generally are becoming more, rather than less, restrictive upon our business, we can offer no assurances that our existing and future product offerings will remain compliant with evolving standards and regulations. If we fail to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certification, we may be unable to sell our products into jurisdictions to which these standards apply, which may prevent us from sustaining our revenues or maintaining profitability. Finally, noncompliance with applicable regulations may increase our exposure to potential tort liability to persons claiming to have been harmed as a result of our actions or omissions. Protection of Intellectual Property. We have a strong interest in protecting the intellectual property that reflects our original research, creative development, and product development. As such, we have sought protection through patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. Along with extensive trademark and patent registration and filings, we have claimed copyright protection for works of original authorship, including product brochures, literature, advertisement, and web pages. While certain legal rights of enforceability are available to us, there can be no assurance as to the ability to successfully prevent others from infringing upon our intellectual property. We have never conducted a comprehensive patent search relating to the technology used in our products, however, we believe that our products do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance, however, that others will not assert infringement claims against us in the future or that those claims, if brought, will not be successful. While we pursue patent, trademark and copyright protection for products and various marks, we also rely on the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, development partners and contract manufacturers to protect our trade secrets, proprietary information and other intellectual property. There can be no assurance, however, that these confidentiality agreements will be honored or will be effective in protecting our trade secrets, proprietary information and other intellectual property. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our future success will depend in a large part on the continued service of many of our technical, marketing, sales and management personnel and on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. Our employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. The loss of the services of key personnel or the inability to attract new personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us, like all other publicly traded companies, to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and have our auditors attest to such evaluation. However, the SEC has currently delayed the effectiveness of the regulations that would require us to file these reports. Currently, the SEC has postponed the requirement for non-accelerated filers to provide management’s report on internal control until after its annual report for the period ended December 31, 2007, and the auditor’s attestation report after it files its annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. However, it is possible that the SEC will further postpone the requirements to later dates. When such requirement is implemented, we will have to establish an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary for compliance. If we do not establish and maintain an effective system of internal control and address and remediate any material weaknesses and other significant deficiencies, the reliability of our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K may be compromised. In addition, reporting any material weakness may negatively impact investors’ perception of us. Finally, if we fail to complete our evaluation on a timely basis and in a satisfactory manner or if management or our auditors are unable to attest on a timely basis to the adequacy of our internal controls, we may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny and to a loss of public confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 