Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the specific risk factors set forth below and other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. You should note that the risks described below are not the only risks that we face. The risks listed below are only those risks relating to our operations that we consider to be material. There may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or that we are not currently aware of, that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose the money they paid to buy our common stock. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry If we are not successful at a combination of selling our non-Windstar Cruises assets, raising additional financing and/or renegotiating existing debt obligations in order to raise funds for operations, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Due to the current global downturn in the economy, specifically the decrease in vacationers’ discretionary spending and the direct impact this has on the reduction in cruise bookings, decrease in corporate spending on incentive programs and the tightening effect of the credit market on financing for construction projects, we will need additional sources of cash in the immediate future in order to fund operations in 2009. Accordingly, in February 2009, we announced our intention to sell our non-Windstar Cruises related assets, including the operations of marine, travel and events, Majestic America Line and insurance operations. We hired an investment banking firm who is actively marketing the non-Windstar Cruise assets for immediate sale. In addition to the sale of assets, we are also seeking additional financing sources and renegotiating existing debt obligations. Based on the terms of the asset sales or additional financing, if any, our stockholders may have additional dilution. The amount of dilution could be attributed to the issuance of warrants or securities with other dilutive characteristics, such as anti-dilution clauses or price resets. Although we are in discussions with potential buyers and other prospects for additional funds, we currently have no completed funding commitments or sale transactions. If we are not able to sell our non-Windstar Cruises assets, raise additional financing and/or renegotiate existing debt obligations in order to raise funds for operations, we will be forced to extend payment terms with vendors where possible, and/or to suspend or curtail certain of our planned operations and possibly seek protection in bankruptcy. Any of these actions would harm our business, results of operations and future prospects, could cause our debt obligations to be accelerated and could result in potential damages on existing contracts within our marine and travel and events divisions. As a result of our need for additional financing and other factors, the report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we cease to continue as a going concern, due to lack of available capital or otherwise, you may lose your entire investment in our company. The change in strategic direction to focus on our cruise division requires us to execute the orderly divestiture of our marine and travel and events divisions in a difficult transactional atmosphere. The current credit turmoil being experienced throughout the United States lending sector has reduced the ability of viable bidders to engage in mergers and acquisitions. We have stated our strategic focus on the Windstar Cruises portion of our cruise division and are currently in the process of selling our marine division, travel and events division, Majestic America Line and insurance business. Failure to consummate these divestitures will result in a reduction of liquidity for the cruise division and will prolong operational costs associated with consolidating our businesses. The adverse impact of the continuing worldwide economic downturn on the demand for cruises could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. The current worldwide economic downturn has had an adverse effect on vacationers’ discretionary spending and consumer confidence which has resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for the others in the cruise industry. We cannot predict the extent or duration of this downturn or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. However, if the downturn continues for an extended period of time or worsens, we could experience a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. This would adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including the impairment of the value of our ships and other intangible assets. 11 Table of Contents In connection with our acquisitions within the cruise segment, we assumed or incurred a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our cash flows and business. In 2007, we obtained $60.0 million in seller financing from our acquisition of Windstar Cruises, payable at 7.0% through 2017. The Windstar Cruises seller financing was paid in full in April 2007 through the use of proceeds received from a $97.0 million offering of 3.75% senior convertible notes due April 15, 2027. Interest on the convertible notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year, commencing October 15, 2007. As a result of this debt, demands on our cash resources have increased. The increased levels of debt could, among other things: • require us to dedicate the majority of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to, and limit flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; • adversely affect our credit rating; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the repayment of debt. We may not be able to make interest payments on our senior convertible notes. In connection with our 3.75% senior convertible notes, we are required to make scheduled interest payments amounting to $1.8 million semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year, commencing October 15, 2007. We did not make a $1.8 million scheduled interest payment due and payable on April 15, 2009 on our 3.75% senior convertible notes. We have until May 15, 2009 to cure this default. If we are unable to make the scheduled interest payments an event of default will occur and the trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding notes may declare the principal and accrued and unpaid interest on all the outstanding notes to be due and payable immediately. Our financial performance is subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. Our businesses are seasonal. We recognize cruise-related revenues at the completion of the cruise. We recognize revenue for marine and related services in accordance with the respective contracts. We recognize travel and event-related revenues in the month a program operates. We recognize insurance premiums as revenue over the period of the insurance contracts in proportion to the amount of the insurance coverage provided. Prior to 2006, the majority of our operating results were recognized in the first and second quarters of each fiscal year, which corresponds to the busy season in our travel and events segment. As a result of the acquisitions within our cruise segment and the size of our cruise operations in relation to our overall operations, a majority of our operating results will be recognized in the second and third quarters of each fiscal year, which coincides with the cruising season. Our future annual results could be adversely affected if our revenue were to be substantially below seasonal norms during the second and third quarters of each fiscal year. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: • our ability to effectively and efficiently operate our cruise operations; • customer cancellation rates; • competitive conditions in the industries in which we operate; • marketing expenses; 12 Table of Contents • extreme weather conditions; • timing of and costs related to acquisitions; • the impact of new laws and regulations affecting our business; • negative incidents involving cruise ships, including those involving the health and safety of passengers; • cruise ship maintenance problems; • reduced consumer demand for vacations and cruise vacations; • changes in fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs; • the availability of raw materials; • our ability to enter into profitable marina construction contracts; • changes in relationships with certain travel providers; • changes in vacation industry capacity; • the mix of programs and events, program destinations and event locations; • the introduction and acceptance of new programs and program and event enhancements by us and our competitors; • other economic factors and other considerations affecting the travel industry; • potential claims related to our reinsurance business; • the potentially volatile nature of the reinsurance business; and • other factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of these and other factors, our operations and financial condition could suffer, which could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. If we are unable to effectively compete against our competitors, our financial condition will suffer. The cruise, marine and travel and events industries are highly competitive. We compete with a variety of other companies that provide similar products and services. As a result of our cruise acquisitions, we operate in the vacation market, and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators that provide other leisure options, including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. We face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to cruise passengers. We believe the barriers to entry within some of the industries in which we operate are relatively low. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do. As a result, there can be no assurance that our present competitors or competitors that elect to enter the marketplace in the future will not exert significant competitive pressures on us. These competitive factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by events adversely affecting the travel industry, including the effects of general economic conditions. A substantial portion of our operations is directly associated with the travel industry. Demand for travel and vacation is dependent on the underlying strength of the economy. As a result, our operations are subject to special risks inherent in doing business in that industry. Adverse changes in the economic climate, such as higher fuel prices, higher interest rates and changes in governmental policies could reduce the discretionary income of our potential cruise passengers or companies scheduling conventions, trade shows or meetings. Consequently, this could negatively affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, and for travel, events or conventions, all of which are discretionary purchases. In addition, the travel industry is highly susceptible to unforeseen events, such as wars, acts of terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, governmental activities and deprivation of contract rights. Demand for our products and services may also be adversely affected by natural occurrences such as hurricanes, earthquakes, epidemics and flooding in regions in which we offer our products and provide our services. Periods of instability or uncertainty surrounding the travel industry may reduce the demand for our programs and services and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in our travel and events business is highly dependent upon unaffiliated travel services suppliers with whom we have limited agreements. In order to provide our services and products, we depend on airlines, hotels and other suppliers of travel and processing services. We have limited agreements with our travel suppliers and vendors that obligate such suppliers or vendors to process or sell services or products through us. We rely to a large extent on scheduled commercial airline services to get our customers to our cruise ships and, therefore, increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service, could undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages. Restricted access to suppliers and vendors of travel services and processing, or a reduction in capacity or changes in pricing or collateral arrangements with travel suppliers or vendors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overcapacity within the cruise vacation industry, a reduction in demand or economic uncertainties could adversely affect our revenues and profitability and impair our asset values. Cruising capacity has grown in recent years, and we expect it to increase further as cruise vacation companies introduce new ships. Demand for cruises has been and is expected to continue to be dependent on economic conditions. Economic changes may reduce demand for cruise vacations and may lead to reduced occupancy and/or price discounting which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and impair our asset values. Our business could be adversely affected by unanticipated casualty losses. Due to the nature of our businesses, we may be subject to liability claims arising out of accidents or disasters causing injury to our customers, including claims for serious personal injury or death. Although we have never experienced a liability loss for which we did not have adequate insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims or that the insurance carrier will be solvent at the time of any covered loss. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at acceptable premium levels in the future. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large uninsured claims, or of one or a series of claims exceeding our insurance, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that our insurance costs will not escalate. Our protection and indemnity insurance is provided by various mutual protection and indemnity associations. As associations, they rely on member premiums, investment reserves and income, and reinsurance to manage liability risks on behalf of their members. Increased investment losses, underwriting losses or reinsurance costs could cause domestic or international marine insurance associations to substantially raise the 14 Table of Contents cost of premiums, resulting not only in higher premium costs, but also higher levels of deductibles. Increases in our premiums or deductible levels could adversely affect our operating costs. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in our international cruise business is highly dependent on our third party vessel management company. In conjunction with our acquisition of Windstar Cruises, we engaged the services of V.Ships Leisure (“V.Ships”) for the vessel management of our internationally flagged ships. Management services consist of deck, engine and hotel crew management, procurement and technical and hotel operations. We rely on the expertise of our third party provider and the failure to adequately integrate, manage and monitor the operations of V.Ships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. International political and other world events affecting safety and security could adversely affect the demand for cruises, which could harm our future sales and profitability. Demand for cruises and other vacation options has been, and is expected to continue to be, affected by the public’s attitude towards the safety and security of travel. Events such as the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001 and the threats of additional attacks in the U.S. and elsewhere, concerns of an outbreak of additional hostilities and national government travel advisories, together with the resulting political instability and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling, have had a significant adverse effect on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry and may continue to do so in the future. Decreases in demand could lead to price discounting which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could adversely affect our reputation and harm our future sales and profitability. The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, including those caused by the improper operation of our ships, passenger and crew illnesses such as the spread of contagious diseases, mechanical failures, fires, collisions, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior, weather events, security breaches and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely affect future industry performance and expose us to claims by those that may be harmed. For example, our Queen of the West experienced an engine fire in April 2008 which resulted in nine cancelled sailings and our Empress of the North ran aground in May 2007 during a cruise, requiring us to cancel twelve non-consecutive cruises and end the sailing season early. Our Empress of the North also ran aground in March 2006 during a cruise, requiring us to cancel three cruises. In addition, we experienced an outbreak of Norovirus on our Mississippi Queen® in October 2006, requiring us to cancel three cruises. It is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition due to loss of revenue from cancellations passenger relocation, crew expenses, ship repairs and passenger refunds or other accommodations. Incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, events such as terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities, or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as storms and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently adversely affect our profitability. 15 Table of Contents If we do not complete drydocking on schedule or if ship mechanical faults result in unscheduled drydockings and repairs, we will incur additional expenses and may also lose revenues by canceling planned cruises. When we drydock one of our cruise ships as is required for inspection of the exterior of the hull on a periodic basis, we lose the revenue from that ship’s operations for the period it is out of service. We also incur the additional cost of the drydocking. Also, our cruise ships from time to time experience mechanical problems or extended or extraordinary maintenance. Mechanical faults or extended maintenance may result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs. For example, in November 2007 our Wind Star was placed into a scheduled drydock that required more repairs than originally anticipated, which caused a significant budget overrun. Our Wind Spirit experienced an oil leak due to a broken seal in the controllable pitch propeller in December 2007, which caused us to cancel one sailing. These, events together with any related adverse publicity, could adversely affect our financial results. Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our profits by reducing our sales of cruise vacations. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local government regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities. Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our profits by reducing our sales of cruise vacations. The nature of our engineering and construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes, which may reduce our profits and cash available for operations. We engage in construction activities for marina facilities where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. We and/or our subsidiaries have been and may in the future be named as defendants in legal proceedings where parties may make a claim for damages or other remedies with respect to our projects or other matters. These claims generally arise in the normal course of our business. When it is determined that we have liability, we may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of these liabilities may exceed our policy limits. In addition, even where insurance is maintained for such exposures, the policies have deductibles resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to any such claims. Any liability not covered by our insurance, in excess of our insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in a significant loss for us, which claims may reduce our profits and cash available for operations. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of projects our marine division is able to pursue. As is customary in the marina construction industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market and the financial condition of our overall enterprise. Surety companies consider such factors in relationship to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. Since 2001, the surety industry has undergone significant changes, with several companies withdrawing completely from the industry or significantly reducing their bonding commitment. In addition, certain reinsurers of surety risk have limited their participation in this market. Therefore, we could be unable to obtain or meet our current obligations under existing surety bonds when required, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and revenues by limiting the number of projects we are able to pursue. 16 Table of Contents Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. Our ability to conduct and expand our marina construction operations is dependent on access to construction materials and skilled labor. Increased prices or shortages of materials such as cement, aluminum and wood would cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. Labor disputes or increased costs or shortages of skilled labor could also cause increases in costs and delays. Prices and supplies may be further adversely affected by natural disasters and adverse weather conditions. We estimate and forecast costs as part of our business, and attempt to plan for possible cost increases due to changes in prices or availability of materials or labor. However, generally we are unable to pass on unanticipated increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the project at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction work. Significant unexpected increases in costs of materials or labor may adversely affect our results of operations. The demand, timing and funding of marina construction awards and other factors could lead to unpredictable operating results. Our marina construction operations are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with changing demand for marina construction projects, the timing and funding of new projects, the length of time over which construction contracts are to be performed, the ability to meet performance schedules, cost overruns and cancellations or changes in the scope of existing contracts. As a result of these uncertainties, the operating results related to our marine business could be unpredictable and inconsistent from period to period. We may incur costs related to repairing defects in marinas we design and construct, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our marina construction operations are subject to warranty and other claims related to design and construction defects and related issues, including compliance with construction codes. The costs we incur to resolve those warranties and other claims could reduce our profitability, and if we were to experience an unusually high level of claims, or unusually severe claims, our profitability could be adversely affected. Natural disasters, severe weather conditions and forces in nature beyond our control could adversely affect our marina construction and management operations. Our marina construction and management operations are conducted in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, tsunamis and fires. We also may be affected by unforeseen engineering, environmental, or geological problems. These conditions could delay or increase the cost of construction projects, damage or reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for marinas in affected areas. If our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity and capital resources could be adversely affected. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues or profits. Under our accounting procedures, we measure and recognize our marina construction profits and revenues under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows us to recognize revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract by comparing the amount of the costs incurred to date against the total amount of costs expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated, and these revisions can occur at any time and could be material. Given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. 17 Table of Contents Unexpected and adverse changes in the foreign countries in which we operate could result in project disruptions, increased costs and potential losses. Our business is subject to fluctuations in demand and to changing domestic and international economic and political conditions beyond our control. In our marine operations, we currently operate in Australia, Spain, New Zealand, France, United Kingdom, Mexico, Canada, Bahamas, Malaysia, China and Singapore. With the addition of Windstar Cruises, we began offering itineraries with destinations in Costa Rica, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Turkey, Italy, France, British Virgin Islands, Barbados, French West Indies, Grenada and other foreign ports of call. We anticipate that our foreign destinations will change and expand over time. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks including: • abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations; • embargoes; • trade restrictions; • tax treatment; • U.S. government policies relating to foreign operations; and • international hostilities. We also face significant risks due to civil strife, acts of war, terrorism and insurrection. Our level of exposure to these risks varies with respect to each project, depending on the particular stage of each project. For example, our risk exposure with respect to a marina construction project in an early development stage will generally be less than our risk exposure with respect to a project in the middle of construction. To the extent that our international business is affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience project disruptions and losses. Project disruptions and losses could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. Our international operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could increase our U.S. dollar costs or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues. Our international contracts are typically denominated in foreign currencies, which results in our foreign operations facing the additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our profits. We expect to face significant and increasing costs to maintain our ships as they age and may have difficulty replacing our ships when needed, which could adversely affect our result of operations and financial condition. We believe that the costs to maintain our fleet of ships will increase over time. The average age of our ships is approximately 20 years. We expect to incur increasing expenses to operate and maintain our ships in good condition as they age. Eventually, our ships will need to be replaced. We may not be able to replace our ships with new ships based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. If we experience delays and/or defaults in customer payments, we could suffer liquidity problems or be unable to recover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our marina construction contracts, at times we commit resources to marina projects prior to receiving payments from the customer in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on client projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment. Customer defaults in making payments on a project in which we have devoted significant resources could adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by losses associated with our reinsurance operations. We currently reinsure property and casualty risks written by licensed U.S. insurers. The lines of business that are being reinsured include commercial auto liability, commercial physical damage and workers’ compensation. If a loss event occurs that we are required by our agreements to cover, the amount of our cash and cash equivalents will be reduced, and our results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility, tax and maritime and homeland security legislation and other laws and regulations could adversely affect us by restricting our operations increasing our operating costs. As described in Item 1, “Business — Regulation”, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations covering various aspects of our businesses. Compliance or failure to comply with those or future laws and regulations could be costly and could restrict our operations. For example, the U.S., Canada and various state government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies that could adversely affect the cruise vacation industry. Some environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. Current and future environmental laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or to ship discharges, could increase our cost of compliance, subject us to civil and criminal liabilities or otherwise adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, regulations and treaties that govern safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards onboard our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities, which could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. The Federal Maritime Commission requires that operators of ships with 50 or more passenger berths departing from U.S. ports post surety bonds to be used if the operator fails to provide cruise services, or otherwise satisfy certain financial standards. We have secured a $8.7 million surety bond as security under the Federal Maritime Commission. Our ability to continue to secure such a security instrument in the future may result in undue burden on us and may require that we make additional financial deposits directly with the Federal Maritime Commission in proportion to advance passenger deposits received. Since January 31, 2008, U.S. citizens have been required to carry a passport or, when available, a PASS card, for travel by land or sea to or from certain countries and areas that previously were exempt from passport requirements, such as the Caribbean, Canada and Mexico. Since many cruise customers visiting these destinations may not currently have passports or may not obtain a PASS card when available, it is likely that this will have some negative effect on our bookings and future net revenue yields. A failure to operate in accordance with the Coast Guard’s maritime security regulations or an approved security plan may result in the imposition of a fine or control and compliance measures, including the suspension or revocation of the security plan, thereby making the ship or facility ineligible to operate. We are also required to audit these security plans on an annual basis and, if necessary, submit amendments to the Coast Guard for their review and approval. Failure to timely submit the necessary amendments may lead to the imposition of the fines and control and compliance measures mentioned above. DHS may adopt additional security-related regulations, including new requirements for screening of passengers and our reimbursement to the agency for the cost of security services. These new security-related regulations could adversely affect our ability to efficiently process passengers or could increase our operating costs. In addition, we may be subject to fines or other penalties for failure to comply with laws and regulations of one or more states requiring licensing, qualification or other action. Increases in taxes and regulatory 19 Table of Contents compliance costs could adversely affect our results of operations because we may not be able to recover these increased costs through price increases of our cruise vacations. We may be subject to significantly higher U.S. income taxes if we do not qualify for exemption from tax or for deferral of tax under U.S. tax laws in respect of Windstar Cruises income. Changes under the Code may adversely affect the U.S. federal income taxation of our U.S. source shipping income derived from our Windstar Cruises. In addition, changes in other countries’ or states’ income or other tax laws, regulations or treaties in respect of our Windstar Cruises could also adversely affect our net income. We believe that substantially all of the U.S. source shipping income of our Windstar Cruises qualifies for exemption under Section 883 of the Code. We further believe that substantially all of the income derived by our Windstar Cruises qualifies for deferral from tax, until repatriated by dividend or otherwise, back to the United States under the “controlled foreign corporation” (“CFC”) regime of the Code. However, if as a result of changes in the law, we do not qualify for exemption from tax under Section 883, or qualify for deferral of tax under the CFC regime, in respect of our Windstar Cruises income, we would have significantly higher U.S. income tax expenses. In addition, changes in the income or other tax laws affecting our cruise businesses elsewhere could result in higher income and/or other taxes, such as value added taxes, being levied on our cruise operations, thus resulting in lower net income. For additional information see “Taxation” under Part I, Item 1. Business. Additional Risks Related to Our Stock If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements. For example, NASDAQ rules require that we maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for our common stock. Our common stock is currently and has in the past fallen below this minimum bid price requirement and it may do so again in the future. NASDAQ has currently suspended this bid price requirement through July 19, 2009. However, if NASDAQ does not further extend this suspension and our stock price is below $1.00 at the time the suspension is lifted or falls below $1.00 after that time or if we in the future fail to meet other requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Select Market if we are unable to cure the events of noncompliance in a timely or effective manner. If our common stock were threatened with delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market, we may, depending on the circumstances, seek to extend the period for regaining compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements by moving our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market. For example, if appropriate, we may request, approval by our stockholders to implement a reverse stock split in order to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement. If our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. In addition, in the event that our common stock is delisted, we would be in default under the terms and conditions of our convertible debt. 20 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions may delay or prevent the acquisition of us, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management. Provisions in our charter documents may make a change of control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. Having a staggered board of directors makes it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. Additionally, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us in certain circumstances. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to specified exceptions, a Delaware corporation may not engage in business combinations with any entity that acquires enough shares of our common stock without the consent of our board of directors to be considered an “interested stockholder” under Delaware law for a three-year period following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Neither our certificate of incorporation or bylaws contains an election, as permitted by Delaware law, to be exempt from the requirements of Section 203. U.S. ownership requirements and transferability limitations may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. We have added restrictions to our certificate of incorporation limiting the transferability of our common stock or control to non-U.S. citizens to preserve our U.S.-flagged status. We believe that such limitations may have the effect of decreasing the liquidity of our common stock, thereby making it more difficult for investors to dispose of their shares in an orderly manner. We may also add legends to our stock certificates to indicate the citizenship of our stockholders to facilitate our ability to monitor and control our U.S. citizenship. Such provisions and the level of ownership by insiders and our largest stockholders, we believe, may deter a change in control and limit non-U.S. citizens’, including corporations’ and individuals’, purchases of our common stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock underlying derivative securities could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of April 7, 2009, we had outstanding 11,177,267 shares of common stock. A substantial number of these shares are 21 Table of Contents eligible or registered for public resale. Sales of these underlying shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility and is likely to continue to experience significant volatility in the future. This volatility may impair our ability to finance strategic transactions with our stock and otherwise harm our business The closing price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $13.77 per share to a low of $0.65 per share during the year ended December 31, 2008. On March 17, 2009 our closing stock price was $0.27 which was the lowest level in our Company’s history. Our stock price is likely to experience significant volatility in the future as a result of numerous factors outside our control. Significant declines in our stock price may interfere with our ability to raise additional funds through equity financing or to finance strategic transactions with our stock. We have historically used equity incentive compensation as part of our overall compensation arrangements. The effectiveness of equity incentive compensation in retaining key employees may be adversely impacted by volatility in our stock price. In addition, there may be increased risk of securities litigation following periods of fluctuations in our stock price. These and other consequences of volatility in our stock price could have the effect of diverting management’s attention and could materially harm our business, and could be exacerbated by the current worldwide financial crisis. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 