Item 1A. Risk Factors Controlled Company. As of March 25, 2008 approximately 76% of our voting stock was beneficially owned by Sun Mackie, LLC, an affiliate of Sun Capital Partners, Inc., a Florida-based private equity firm. As a result of our issuance of a convertible debt obligation to Sun Mackie, LLC, Sun Mackie, LLC may increase its beneficial ownership to approximately 85% of outstanding common stock upon conversion of the principal balance of our Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Note. By virtue of that ownership Sun Mackie has the power to nominate and designate all of the members of our board of directors, and directly or indirectly control substantially all aspects of our operations. Because of its concentration of ownership, for example, Sun Mackie, LLC, has the ability to require or prohibit any action over which our shareholders have control, including the approval of significant corporate transactions, a sale of our company, decisions about our capital structure and the composition of our board of directors. As a result, Sun Mackie, LLC, may vote its shares of capital stock to cause us to take actions that may conflict with the best interests of our unaffiliated stockholders, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, as a result of this ownership arrangement, we rely on exemptions from certain Nasdaq corporate governance standards. Under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by a single person or a group of people is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain Nasdaq Global Select Market corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and (3) the requirement that director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board of directors’ selection, by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. Unless we cease to rely on these exemptions, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq Global Select Market corporate governance requirements. Liquidity and Debt Obligations. We are highly leveraged and maintain a number of credit arrangements that are critical to our growth and to our ongoing operations. These credit agreements include certain financial 5 Table of Contents covenants and ratios and require that we maintain adequate levels of eligible collateral to support our borrowing level. Our substantial debt subjects us to numerous risks, including the following: • we will be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt, thereby reducing cash available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; • our leverage may increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; • our debt service obligations may limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; and • our level of debt may make it difficult for us to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. The agreements also provide, among other matters, restrictions on additional financing, dividends, mergers, acquisitions, and an annual capital expenditure limit. The covenants in these credit agreements may restrict our operations. If we are unable to generate adequate levels of sales and operating profit, our lenders could declare us to be in default of our obligations. As discussed below in greater detail, in February 2007 we notified our senior lender that we were in breach of certain financial covenants in our senior credit facility. We received a forbearance from this lender that continued in effect until we completed the refinancing of our March 30, 2007 credit facility. Also discussed below in greater detail, we failed to meet our EBITDA targets, fixed charge coverage ratio, and consolidated leverage ratio at September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2007. On October 17, 2007 and March 6, 2008, we entered into waiver agreements with the lenders with respect to the defaults. Also discussed below in greater detail, on March 6, 2008, we entered into an amendment to our current credit agreement. We believe we will maintain compliance with the terms of our current credit facility and with our other financing arrangements, but if we fail to comply, there is no assurance that the lenders would grant waivers or agree to restructure our debt or that we would be able to obtain other financing. If we default on our debt, our lenders have a variety of remedies against us including accelerating all amounts so that they come due immediately and foreclosing on their security interests, which would allow the creditors to take possession of all of our assets. Moreover, certain of our debt obligations are cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one of the agreements causes a default against each other credit agreement. In such instances, if we were required to obtain alternate financing in a very short period of time, we might have to suspend or discontinue our operations, liquidate our assets or take other measures that would result in a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. We were in default of certain financial covenants in our senior secured loan facility at December 31, 2006. On March 5, 2007 we entered into a Forbearance and Consent Agreement with Merrill Lynch Capital, a division of Merrill Lynch Business Financial Services Inc. as lender, whereby Merrill Lynch Business Financial Services Inc. agreed to forbear from exercising its rights and remedies for default under the credit facility. The Forbearance and Consent Agreement ended on March 30, 2007, when we refinanced the principal balances owing under this credit facility through a structured financial transaction with Ableco Finance LLC (“Ableco”) and certain other lenders (including our controlling stockholder) for up to $112 million in the form of a senior secured credit facility. This transaction and the impact to our liquidity are explained in more detail in Note 10 of the accompanying financial statements. We failed to meet our EBITDA target, fixed charge coverage ratio, and consolidated leverage ratio related to the Ableco credit facility as of September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2007. With respect to the September 30, 2007 default, we entered into a waiver agreement on October 17, 2007 with the lenders effective as of September 30, 2007. We paid a fee of $225,000 upon execution of the waiver and the interest rates on Term Loan A increased to Chase Manhattan Bank’s prime rate plus 0.85% or LIBOR plus 3.35% and the interest rates on Term Loans B increased to Chase Manhattan Bank’s prime rate plus 2.95% or LIBOR plus 5.2%. With respect to the December 31, 2007 default, we entered into a waiver agreement on March 6, 2008 with the lenders effective as of December 31, 2007. We paid a fee of $100,000 upon execution of the waiver. 6 Table of Contents On March 6, 2008, we entered into an Amendment related to the Ableco credit facility. The Amendment modifies certain definitions used in the Financing Agreement and requires us to reduce the balance outstanding under the Financing Agreement by $7.5 million. The Amendment modifies the definition of “Consolidated EBITDA” and “Consolidated Funded Indebtedness” to change the calculations pursuant to these terms, as well as other terms used in the Financing Agreement. As a condition to entering into the Amendment, our lender has requested that we seek $7.5 million of subordinated financing. On March 18, 2008, we issued to our controlling stockholder, Sun Mackie, a $7.5 million Convertible Senior Subordinated Secured Promissory Note due 2012 (the “Note”) that is secured by all of the assets of the Company now owned and thereafter acquired. The Note bears interest at a rate of 15.25% per annum, payable in kind until maturity, and is convertible into common stock at a conversion price of $5.00. We paid Sun Mackie a fee of $150,000 upon issuance of the Note, and have agreed to pay all of Sun Mackie’s expenses associated with its entry into the note. This transaction is explained in more detail in Note 18 of the accompanying financial statements. Our credit arrangements generally accrue interest based on variable short-term interest rates. Increases in the prime rate or LIBOR would increase our interest expense, which would adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Related Party Transactions. We are party to certain contracts with Sun Mackie, LLC, our controlling shareholder, and certain contracts with affiliates of Sun Mackie, LLC. These relationships may create actual or potential conflicts of interest. For example, on March 18, 2008, after the period covered by this report, we issued a Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Note in the principal amount of $7,500,000. That note bears interest at a rate of 15.25% per annum and is payable in kind, meaning that accruing interest not paid in cash is payable in additional notes having the same terms. The notes are convertible at any time at the election of Sun Mackie, LLC, into shares of our common stock, and the number of shares issuable upon conversion is equal to the then-outstanding principal balance (including interest) of the notes, divided by $5.00. This conversion rate represents a discount from the reported market price of our common stock at the close of business on March 17, 2008, the day prior to our issuance of that note. This discount causes the Note to have a beneficial conversion feature which will cause additional interest expense to be recorded in future periods that is not factored into the 15.25% rate. Additionally, we pay an affiliate of Sun Mackie, LLC, an annual management fee of $400,000, or 6% of EBITDA, not to exceed $1,000,000 plus expense reimbursements which totaled approximately $948,000 and $1,048,000 in 2007 and 2006, respectively, in exchange for their contributions to our management and for the service of Sun Mackie’s affiliates on our board of directors. In addition, Sun Mackie, LLC, and its affiliates face only limited restrictions on their ability to compete with us. Accordingly, there may arise conflicts of interest that restrict or inhibit our ability to operate our business, make acquisitions and obtain financing. Finally, we have had in the past, and may in the future enter into, commercial agreements or financing arrangements with one or more companies in which Sun Mackie, LLC, or its affiliates, has an interest. There can be no assurance that any such transactions has approximated, or in the future will approximate, benefits or value that might be obtained from unrelated parties bargaining at arms’ length. Sales Concentration. One customer, Guitar Center, Inc., represents a significant portion of our sales. In 2007, 2006, and 2005, Guitar Center, Inc. accounted for approximately 16%, 19% and 17%, respectively, of our net sales. We anticipate that this customer will continue to represent a significant portion of our sales, however Guitar Center, Inc. is not under any obligation, by contract or otherwise, to continue purchasing products from us. If the relationship with Guitar Center, Inc. were to deteriorate for any reason we could lose a portion of our net sales revenues, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Acquisition Matters. We have entered, and may in the future enter, into strategic transactions, including strategic supply and service agreements and acquisitions of other assets and businesses. Any such transactions 7 Table of Contents can be risky, may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources and may create unforeseen operating difficulties or expenditures, including: • difficulties in integrating acquired technologies and operations into our business while maintaining uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • obligations imposed on us by counterparties in such transactions that limit our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to compete in geographic areas or specific lines of business, or other aspects of our operational flexibility; • increasing cost and complexity of assuring the implementation and maintenance of adequate internal control and disclosure controls and procedures, and of obtaining the reports and attestations required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; • difficulties in consolidating and preparing our financial statements due to poor accounting records, weak financial controls and, in some cases, procedures at acquired entities not based on U.S. GAAP particularly those entities in which we lack control; and • inability to predict or anticipate market developments and capital commitments relating to the acquired company, business or technology. Some of our business acquisitions have increased, or in the future may increase, our level of difficulty in maintaining our financial reporting controls. In addition, acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses organized outside the United States often can involve additional risks, including: • difficulties, as a result of distance, language, legal or cultural differences, in developing, staffing and managing foreign operations; • lack of control over our equity investees and other business relationships; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer payment cycles; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • foreign exchange controls that might limit our control over, or prevent us from repatriating, cash generated outside the United States; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • expropriation or nationalization of assets; • difficulties in foreign corporate law that have and may create additional administrative burdens and legal risks; • increased management time and resources to manage overseas operations; • trade barriers and import and export restrictions; and • political or social unrest and economic instability. The anticipated benefit of any of our strategic transactions may never materialize. Future investments, acquisitions or dispositions, or similar arrangements could result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Any such transactions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We have experienced certain of these risks in connection with our acquisitions and investments in the past, and the occurrence of any of these risks in the future may have a material effect on our business. Competition. Our industry is highly competitive, and we face competition from a number of well-known brands including Electro-Voice, Fender, Harman and Yamaha. Some of our competitors are substantially better capitalized and have substantially stronger market presence than we have. We also expect increasing 8 Table of Contents competition from both established and emerging companies. Competition may have the effects of reducing the prices we can charge for our products, increasing our marketing costs associated with developing and maintaining our market niche, or reducing the demand for our products. If we fail to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition, our profitability and financial performance will be adversely affected, and those effects may be material. Variability in Quarterly Operating Results. Our operating results will vary from quarter to quarter. Sales in each quarter is substantially dependent on orders received within that quarter as well as product availability. Our expenditures in each quarter are based on investment plans and our best estimates of future sales. We may, therefore, be unable to reduce spending if sales decline in a given quarter quickly enough to prevent adverse impacts on our operating results for such quarters. Moreover, results of operations for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Other factors which could cause fluctuations in quarterly results to occur include: • increased competition in niche markets; • timing of new product announcements; • product releases and pricing changes by us or our competitors; • market acceptance or delays in the introduction of new products; • production constraints; • the timing of significant orders; • customers’ budgets; and • changes in foreign currency exchange rates. It is likely that in some quarters our operating results will be adversely affected by these factors. Rapid Technological Change. Product technology in the professional audio and music products market evolves rapidly, making timely product innovation essential to success in the marketplace. The introduction of products with improved technologies or features may render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our products do not perform well, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, new products may contain defects or errors, which may negatively impact the product’s acceptance in the market. Product Liability. Some of our products are electronically powered and may pose a risk of electrical shock or fire. These products, such as amplifiers, speakers and sound mixers, create a risk that our customers or third parties may bring claims that our products have caused property damage, physical injury or death. In extreme cases these claims may be asserted as class actions on behalf of large numbers of people. These types of litigation, if threatened or brought, can be costly to defend and may distract management’s attention from operating our business, whether or not we ultimately are adjudged to be liable and whether or not we settle such an action. Use of Contract Distribution Centers. We store and ship the majority of our products from our Woodinville, Washington and St. Louis, Missouri locations. In addition, we utilize contract distribution centers in Europe, Asia and Canada. These distribution centers may encounter personnel issues, business disruptions, information systems outages or other disruptions, which may not be remedied quickly, resulting in delays in shipments of our products. Failure to maintain adequate systems and internal controls at these facilities could result in customer shipments being delayed or otherwise improperly transacted, potentially resulting in lost revenue, products or customers. 9 Table of Contents Use of Contract Manufacturers. The majority of our products are manufactured by contract manufacturers. Contract manufacturing creates additional risks including: • reduction in control over the manufacturing process; • longer lead times for transitions of newly released products from engineering to full release; • lead times for transitions of existing products to new contract manufacturers; • reduced flexibility in reacting to demand changes; • increased transportation cost and delivery times; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates (specifically the “floating” currency rate in China); • delays or inability to source parts on reasonable payment terms; and • concentration of production by certain key manufacturers. Manufacturing in China. Our ability to import products from China at current tariff levels could be materially and adversely affected if the United States terminates the “normal trade relations” (“NTR”, formerly “most favored nation”) status granted to China for trade and tariff purposes. As a result of its NTR status, China receives the same favorable tariff treatment that the United States extends to its other “normal” trading partners. China’s NTR status, coupled with its membership in the World Trade Organization, could eventually reduce barriers to manufacturing products in and exporting products from China. However, we cannot provide any assurance that China’s WTO membership or NTR status will not change. International Operations. We have significant net sales to customers outside the United States and believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. International sales may fluctuate due to various factors, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and taxes; • increases in freight costs, or damage or loss in shipment; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer average payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • product safety and other certification requirements; and • political and economic instability, wars and terrorist activity. Consumer Products Regulations. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations and standards defined by the Federal Communications Commission, the Consumer Products Safety Commission and Underwriters’ Laboratories. Internationally, our products may be required to comply with regulations or standards established by consumer protection or telecommunications authorities in the countries into which we sell our products, as well as standards established by various multinational or extranational bodies. These regulations are becoming more common and the trend is to impose greater restrictions upon products such as ours. For example, the European Union recently adopted a directive on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment, known as RoHs, and has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directive applicable to persons who import electrical or electronic equipment into Europe. Similarly, California has a consumer protection measure that requires us to identify or eliminate potential hazardous components used in our products. We believe we are in material compliance with all applicable regulations; however, the regulations may expose us to various civil penalties in cases of noncompliance. Moreover, as these regulations are constantly evolving and generally are becoming more, rather than less, restrictive upon our business, we can offer no assurances that our existing and future product offerings will remain compliant with evolving standards and regulations. If we fail to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certification, we may be unable to sell our products into jurisdictions to which these standards apply, which may prevent us from sustaining our revenues or maintaining profitability. Finally, noncompliance with applicable regulations may 10 Table of Contents increase our exposure to potential tort liability to persons claiming to have been harmed as a result of our actions or omissions. Protection of Intellectual Property. We have a strong interest in protecting the intellectual property that reflects our original research, creative development, and product development. As such, we have sought protection through patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. Along with extensive trademark and patent registration and filings, we have claimed copyright protection for works of original authorship, including product brochures, literature, advertisement, and web pages. While certain legal rights of enforceability are available to us, there can be no assurance as to the ability to successfully prevent others from infringing upon our intellectual property. We have never conducted a comprehensive patent search relating to the technology used in our products, however, we believe that our products do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance, however, that others will not assert infringement claims against us in the future or that those claims, if brought, will not be successful. While we pursue patent, trademark and copyright protection for products and various marks, we also rely on the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, development partners and contract manufacturers to protect our trade secrets, proprietary information and other intellectual property. There can be no assurance, however, that these confidentiality agreements will be honored or will be effective in protecting our trade secrets, proprietary information and other intellectual property. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our future success will depend in a large part on the continued service of many of our technical, marketing, sales and management personnel and on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. Our employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. The loss of the services of key personnel or the inability to attract new personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us, like all other publicly traded companies, to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and have our auditors attest to such evaluation. However, the SEC has currently delayed the effectiveness of the regulations that would require us to file these reports. Currently, the SEC has postponed the requirement for non-accelerated filers to provide management’s report on internal control until after its annual report for the period ended December 31, 2008, and the auditor’s attestation report after it files its annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. However, it is possible that the SEC will further postpone the requirements to later dates. When such requirement is implemented, we will have to establish an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary for compliance. If we do not establish and maintain an effective system of internal control and address and remediate any material weaknesses and other significant deficiencies, the reliability of our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K may be compromised. In addition, reporting any material weakness may negatively impact investors’ perception of us. Finally, if we fail to complete our evaluation on a timely basis and in a satisfactory manner or if management or our auditors are unable to attest on a timely basis to the adequacy of our internal controls, we may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny and to a loss of public confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 