Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the specific risk factors set forth below and other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. You should note that the risks described below are not the only risks that we face. The risks listed below are only those risks relating to the Company’s operations considered to be material. There may be additional risks currently considered not to be material or are not currently aware of, that could harm the business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Risks Relating to the Filing of the Chapter 11 Case On April 1 2011, the Company and certain of its direct and indirect United States subsidiaries (collectively, the “Debtors”) filed for protection under the Bankruptcy Code and commenced the Chapter 11 Case. During the Chapter 11 Case, business operations are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy, including, but not limited to, the following: • Difficulties of operating our properties while in bankruptcy may make it more difficult to maintain and promote our cruises and attract customers. • Vendors and service providers may require stricter terms and conditions. • Substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses. • Restrictions on our ability to take certain actions. Among other things, the Bankruptcy Code limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, consolidate, merge or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or grant liens. These restrictions may place us at a competitive disadvantage. • Adverse affect on our ability to maintain and remodel our vessels. • Transactions by the Debtors outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. • We may not be able to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to actions we may seek to undertake in the Chapter 11 Case. • We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees through the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees. In addition, so long as the Chapter 11 Case continues, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. • We will need to obtain financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures. There can be no assurances to our ability to obtain sufficient financing. We are currently financing our operations during our reorganization pursuant to a debtor in possession financing, which the Bankruptcy Court has approved on an interim basis. • While our bankruptcy proceedings are pending, we expect our financial results to be volatile. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance following the filing of the Chapter 11 Case. Further, to the extent we sell or otherwise dispose of assets and liquidate or settle liabilities, with court approval, for amounts other than those reflected in our historical financial statements, any such sale or disposition could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our historical consolidated financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary. • There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, execute, confirm and consummate a sale or reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Case that is acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and the Debtors’ creditors and other parties in interest. Additionally, third parties may seek and obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to appoint a Chapter 11 Trustee, or to convert the case to a Chapter 7 case. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code, pre-petition liabilities and post-petition liabilities must be satisfied in full before shareholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or shareholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of a plan of reorganization. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 Case to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, a plan of reorganization can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by equity holders and notwithstanding the fact that equity holders do not receive or retain any property on account of their equity interests under the plan of reorganization. We do not presently believe that there will be any meaningful recovery, or any recovery at all, for holders of our Common Stock or our convertible notes as a result of our bankruptcy. Failure to obtain confirmation of a Plan of Reorganization may result in liquidation or an alternative plan on less favorable terms. There can be no assurance that the Chapter 11 Case will continue rather than be converted into Chapter 7 liquidation cases. If a liquidation or protracted reorganization of the Company’s business or operations were to occur, there is a substantial risk that the Company’s going concern value would be substantially eroded. All our outstanding indebtedness is currently in default as a result of the filing of the Chapter 11 Case. The filing of the Chapter 11 Case constituted an event of default or otherwise triggered repayment obligations under all of our outstanding indebtedness, including the Credit Agreement governing our senior secured working capital facility and the indenture governing our Senior Secured NotesAll indebtedness outstanding under the working capital facility, the Senior Secured Notes and the Convertible Notes became automatically due and payable, subject to an automatic stay of any action to collect, assert or recover a claim against the Debtors and the application of applicable bankruptcy law. We may be unable to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements and related notes have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. However, the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filings raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of substantial doubt about the ability of our Company to continue as a going concern. The ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on the ability to obtain confirmation by the bankruptcy court of a plan of reorganization restructuring obligations and to obtain any debt and equity financing which may be required to emerge from bankruptcy protection, as well as the ability to achieve profitability. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets or to the amounts and classification of liabilities or any other adjustments that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Our Common Stock is no longer listed on NASDAQ. On April 4, 2011, the Company received notification from the staff of the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that the staff of the Nasdaq Stock Market has determined, in accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rules 5101, 5110(b) and IM-5101-1, that the Company’s common stock will be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market in light of, among other things, the Company’s announcement that it filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The notification states that Nasdaq trading in the Company’s common stock would be suspended at the opening of business on April 13, 2011, and Nasdaq would request that the Securities and Exchange Commission remove the Company’s securities from listing and registration on the Nasdaq Stock Market, unless the Company requests an appeal of the delisting decision. The Company did not appeal Nasdaq's delisting decision and the common stock was delisted effective April 13, 2011. The adverse impact of the economic downturn and the effects of general economic conditions on the demand for cruises could adversely impact future operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. The worldwide economic downturn has had an adverse effect on vacationers’ discretionary spending and consumer confidence, which has resulted in reduced cruise booking, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues. We cannot predict the extent or duration of this downturn or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. However, if economic conditions were to deteriorate over an extended period of time, we could experience a prolonged period of reduced bookings, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. This would adversely impact operating results, cash flows and financial condition including the impairment of the value of the ships and intangible asset. Further, adverse changes in the economic climate, such as higher fuel prices, higher interest rates and changes in governmental policies could reduce the discretionary income of potential cruise passengers or companies scheduling incentive charters. Consequently, this could negatively affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, which are discretionary purchases. In addition, the travel industry is highly susceptible to unforeseen events, such as wars, acts of terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, governmental activities, deprivation of contract rights and adverse publicity regarding the outbreak of infections on cruises. Demand for our products and services may also be adversely affected by natural occurrences such as hurricanes, earthquakes, epidemics and flooding in regions in which we offer products and provide services. Periods of instability or uncertainty surrounding the travel industry may reduce the demand for products and could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may receive deemed dividends from its foreign subsidiaries that could result in taxable income in future years. It is possible that the Company may receive one or more deemed dividends in future years as a result of the guarantees by it’s foreign subsidiaries of it’s obligations under the Senior Secured Notes. Such deemed dividends would constitute taxable income and could result in a U.S. federal income tax liability. Our financial performance could be subject to fluctuations which could result in substantial losses. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: • ability to effectively and efficiently operate our cruise operations; • customer cancellation rates; • competitive conditions in the industry in which we operate; • marketing expenses; • extreme weather conditions; • the impact of new laws and regulations affecting our business; • negative incidents involving cruise ships, including those involving the health and safety of passengers; • cruise ship maintenance problems; • reduced consumer demand for vacations and cruise vacations; • changes in fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs; • changes in relationships with certain travel providers; • changes in vacation industry capacity; • other economic factors and other considerations affecting the travel industry; and • other factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of these and other factors, the operations and financial condition could suffer, which could cause annual or quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of investors. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies which experienced volatility in the market price of its securities. The Company may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. If we are unable to effectively compete against our competitors, our financial condition will suffer. The cruise industry is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of other companies that provide similar products and services. We operate in the vacation market, and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators that provide other leisure options, including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. We face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to cruise passengers. We believe the barriers to enter the industry in which we operate are relatively low. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do. As a result, there can be no assurance that our present competitors or competitors that elect to enter the marketplace in the future will not exert significant competitive pressures on us. These competitive factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The filing of the Chapter 11 Case may have an adverse impact on our ability to compete. Overcapacity within the cruise vacation industry, a reduction in demand or economic uncertainties could adversely affect our revenues and profitability and impair our asset values. Cruising capacity has grown in recent years, and we expect it to increase further as cruise vacation companies introduce new ships. Demand for cruises has been and is expected to continue to be dependent on economic conditions. Economic changes may reduce demand for cruise vacations and may lead to reduced occupancy and/or price discounting which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and impair our asset values. Our business could be adversely affected by unanticipated casualty losses. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to liability claims arising out of accidents or disasters causing injury to our customers, including claims for serious personal injury or death. Although we have never experienced a liability loss for which we did not have adequate insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims or that the insurance carrier will be solvent at the time of any covered loss. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at acceptable premium levels in the future. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large uninsured claims, or of one or a series of claims exceeding our insurance, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that our insurance costs will not escalate. Our protection and indemnity insurance is provided by various mutual protection and indemnity associations. As associations, they rely on member premiums, investment reserves and income, and reinsurance to manage liability risks on behalf of their members. Increased investment losses, underwriting losses or reinsurance costs could cause domestic or international marine insurance associations to substantially raise the cost of premiums, resulting not only in higher premium costs, but also higher levels of deductibles. Increases in our premiums or deductible levels could adversely affect our operating costs. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Members of our senior management are all at-will employees who may elect to leave the Company at any time. International political and other world events affecting safety and security could adversely affect the demand for cruises, which could harm our future sales and profitability. Demand for cruises and other vacation options has been, and is expected to continue to be, affected by the public’s attitude towards the safety and security of travel. Events, such as terrorist attacks in the world, concerns of an outbreak of additional hostilities and national government travel advisories, together with the resulting political instability and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling, have had a significant adverse effect on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry and may continue to do so in the future. Decreases in demand could lead to price discounting which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could adversely affect our reputation and harm our future sales and profitability. The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, including those caused by the improper operation of our ships, passenger and crew illnesses such as the spread of contagious diseases, mechanical failures, fires, collisions, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior, weather events, security breaches and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely affect future industry performance and expose us to claims by those that may be harmed. It is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition due to loss of revenue from cancellations, passenger relocation, crew expenses, ship repairs and passenger refunds or other accommodations. Incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, events such as terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities, or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as storms and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently adversely affect our profitability. If we do not complete drydocking on schedule or if ship mechanical faults result in unscheduled drydockings and repairs, we will incur additional expenses and may also lose revenues by canceling planned cruises. When we drydock one of our cruise ships as is required for inspection of the exterior of the hull on a periodic basis, we lose the revenue from that ship’s operations for the period it is out of service. We also incur the additional cost of the drydocking. Also, our cruise ships from time to time experience mechanical problems or extended or extraordinary maintenance. Mechanical faults or extended maintenance may result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs. Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our profits by reducing our sales of cruise vacations. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local government regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities. Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing our sales of cruise vacations. Unexpected and adverse changes in the foreign countries in which we operate could result in business disruptions, increased costs and potential losses. We offer cruise itineraries with destinations in foreign ports of call. We anticipate that our foreign destinations will change and expand over time. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks including: • abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations; • embargoes; • trade restrictions; • tax treatment; • U.S. government policies relating to foreign operations; and • international hostilities. We also face significant risks due to local economies, civil strife, acts of war, terrorism and insurrection. To the extent that our international business is affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience business disruptions which could significantly reduce our revenues and results of operations. Our international operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could increase our U.S. dollar costs. Local purchases from international ports of call and other suppliers are typically denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. This results in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for products and services. Any increased costs as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We expect to face significant and increasing costs to maintain our ships as they age and may have difficulty replacing our ships when needed, which could adversely affect our result of operations and financial condition. We believe that the costs to maintain our fleet of ships will increase over time. The average age of our ships is approximately 25 years. We expect to incur increasing expenses to operate and maintain our ships in good condition as they age. Eventually, our ships will need to be replaced. We may not be able to replace our ships with new ships based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. Environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility, tax and maritime legislation and other laws and regulations could adversely affect us by restricting our operations and increasing our operating costs. As described in Item 1, “Business — Regulation”, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations covering various aspects of our businesses. Compliance with those or future laws and regulations could be costly and could restrict our operations, and failure to comply with any such laws could result in penalties or otherwise adversely affect us. A failure to operate in accordance with international maritime security regulations or an approved security plan may result in the imposition of a fine or control and compliance measures, including the suspension or revocation of the security plan, thereby making the ship or facility ineligible to operate. We are also required to audit these security plans on an annual basis and, if necessary, submit amendments to our security plans for their review and approval. Failure to timely submit the necessary amendments may lead to the imposition of the fines and control and compliance measures mentioned above. In addition, many aspects of our operations are subject to environmental regulations. Various country and local international governments or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies that could adversely affect the cruise vacation industry, including new restrictions on the type of fuel that can be utilized in certain international waters. Current and future environmental laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or to ship discharges, could increase the cost of compliance or otherwise adversely affect the value of our vessels, resulting in adverse affects on our business and financial condition. We continue to evaluate ongoing environmental regulation developments at the international and federal levels and assess the potential associated impacts on our business and operations. We may be subject to significantly higher U.S. income taxes if we do not qualify for exemption from tax or for deferral of tax under U.S. tax laws in respect to our cruise income. Changes under the IRS Code may adversely affect the U.S. federal income taxation of our shipping income derived from Windstar Cruises. In addition, changes in other countries income or other tax laws, regulations or treaties could also adversely affect our operating costs and net income. Certain significant stockholders have designated directors who are members of our Board of Directors. As a result, these stockholders may exercise significant influence over the Company and their interests may conflict with the interests of other stockholders. As a result of the 2009 Exchange Offer, Whippoorwill Associates, Inc. (as agent for its discretionary accounts), is a significant stockholder of the Company and has a director designee on our Board of Directors, which consists of five total members. In connection with the 2009 Exchange Offer, Polygon Investments has a director designee on our Board of Directors. Whippoorwill is also a significant creditor of the Company through holdings of Senior Secured Notes and its status as lender under the Credit Facility. As a result, such stockholders may exercise significant influence over corporate policy and decisions with respect to fundamental corporate transactions and, due to, among other things, their position as either equity holders and or creditors of the Company, their interests may conflict with the interests of other stockholders. For example, the directors designated by Whippoorwill or Polygon may exert influence over significant corporate transactions. In addition, in matters requiring or otherwise involving a vote of stockholders, each of such holders will have the ability to vote a significant percentage of our Common Stock for or against any proposal. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions may delay or prevent the acquisition of us, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management. U.S. ownership requirements and transferability limitations may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. We have added restrictions to our certificate of incorporation limiting the transferability of our common stock or control to non-U.S. citizens. We believe that such limitations may have the effect of decreasing the liquidity of our common stock, thereby making it more difficult for investors to dispose of their shares in an orderly manner. We may also add legends to our stock certificates to indicate the citizenship of our stockholders to facilitate our ability to monitor and control our U.S. citizenship. Such provisions and the level of ownership by insiders and our largest stockholders, we believe, may deter a change in control and limit non-U.S. citizens’, including corporations’ and individuals’, purchases of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 