ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and all other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you make an investment decision. If any of the following risk factors, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material, actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. We depend heavily on the continued sales of Vancocin. If revenue from Vancocin materially declines, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed because, other than potential royalties and milestone payments, sales of Vancocin may be our only source of revenue for at least the next several years. Vancocin product sales could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • the development and approval of competitive generic versions of oral Vancocin, approval of products which are currently marketed for other indications by other companies or new pharmaceuticals and technological advances to treat the conditions addressed by Vancocin; • manufacturing or supply interruptions, including, difficulties encountered in qualifying a third party supply chain, which could impair our ability to acquire an adequate supply of Vancocin to meet demand for the product; • changes in the prescribing or procedural practices of physicians in the areas of infectious disease, gastroenterology and internal medicine, including off-label prescribing of other products; • decreases in the rate of infections for which Vancocin is prescribed; • the level and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • decrease in the sensitivity of the relevant bacterium to Vancocin; • changes in terms required by wholesalers, including “fee-for-service” contracts; • marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors; • our ability to maintain all necessary contracts or obtain all necessary rights under applicable federal and state rules and regulations; • the approval of legislative proposals that would authorize re-importation of Vancocin into the U.S. from other countries; • regulatory action by the FDA and other government regulatory agencies; • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third-party payors or retail pharmacies; and • product liability claims. We cannot assure you that revenues from the sale of Vancocin will remain at or above current levels or achieve the level of net product sales that we expect. We believe the rate of infections for which Vancocin is prescribed decreased during the second half of 2007 and that the rates of infection may remain flat or decline in 2008. During the third quarter of 2007, we made the decision to, for the first time, create a small sales organization targeting teaching institutions to promote Vancocin. Our sales organization is expected to commence operations during the first quarter of 2008. We can not predict whether our sales efforts will be effective. In the event our sales and marketing efforts are not effective and the rate of infections for which Vancocin is prescribed, we could experience a decrease in sales of Vancocin. A decrease in sales of Vancocin could result in our inability to maintain profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 17 Table of Contents Core patent protection for Vancocin has expired, which could result in significant competition from generic products and lead to a significant reduction in sales of Vancocin. The last core patent protecting Vancocin expired in 1996. As a result, there is a potential for significant competition from generic products that treat the same conditions addressed by Vancocin. Such competition could result in a significant reduction in sales of Vancocin. We believe that regulatory hurdles (notwithstanding the recent actions taken by the FDA’s Office of Generic Drugs, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (“OGD”), which we describe in more detail below and which we are vigorously opposing), as well as product manufacturing trade secrets, know-how and related non-patent intellectual property, may present barriers to market entry of generic competition. However, there can be no assurance that these barriers will actually delay or prevent generic competition. The effectiveness of these non-patent-related barriers to competition will depend primarily upon: • the current or future regulatory approval requirements for any generic applicant. • the complexities of the manufacturing process for a competitive product; • the nature of the market which Vancocin serves and the position of Vancocin in the market from time to time; • the growth of the market which Vancocin serves; and • our ability to protect Vancocin know-how as a trade secret. We cannot assure you that generic competitors will not take advantage of the absence of patent protection for Vancocin to attempt to develop a competing product. We have become aware of information suggesting that other potential competitors are attempting to develop a competing generic product. For example, Akorn, Inc. stated that during the fourth quarter of 2007 they expect to receive product approval and commence a marketing launch of a generic version of oral Vancocin. We are not able to predict the time period in which a generic drug may enter the market, as this timing will be affected by a number of factors, including: • whether an in-vitro method of demonstrating bioequivalence is available to an applicant to gain marketing approval by the FDA in lieu of performing clinical studies; • the nature of any clinical trials which are required, if any; • the timing of filing an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, the amount of time required by the FDA to review the ANDA and whether a generic drug application is afforded an accelerated review time by the FDA; • the specific formulation of drug for which approval is being sought; and • the time required to develop appropriate manufacturing procedures. On March 17, 2006, we learned that the OGD changed its approach regarding the conditions that must be met in order for a generic drug applicant to request a waiver of in-vivo bioequivalence testing for vancomycin hydrochloride capsules. Specifically, we were informed that a generic applicant may be able to request such a waiver provided that dissolution testing demonstrates that the test product is rapidly dissolving at certain specified conditions. This deviates from our understanding of OGD’s historical practices which would require, for a poorly-absorbed, locally acting gastrointestinal drug (such as Vancocin) a demonstration of bioequivalence through clinical studies or a demonstration of bioequivalence using an appropriately validated in-vitro methodology. On March 17, 2006 we filed a Petition for Stay of Action with the FDA regarding the requirements for waivers of in-vivo bioequivalence testing for Vancocin, and we amended that petition on March 30, 2006. In May 2006, June 2006, May 2007, August 2007, December 2007 and January 2008 we made additional filings in support of our opposition to any approach that does not require rigorous scientific methods to demonstrate a rate and extent of drug release to the site of action consistent with good medicine and science. In the event the OGD’s revised approach regarding the conditions that must be met in order for a generic drug applicant to request a waiver of in-vivo bioequivalence testing for Vancocin remains in effect, the time 18 Table of Contents period in which a generic competitor may enter the market would be reduced. There can be no assurance that the FDA will agree with the positions stated in our Vancocin related submissions or that our efforts to oppose the OGD’s March 2006 recommendation to determine bioequivalence to Vancocin through in-vitro dissolution testing will be successful. We cannot predict the timeframe in which the FDA will make a decision regarding either our citizen petition for Vancocin or the approval of generic versions of Vancocin. If we are unable to change the recommendation set forth by the OGD in March 2006, the threat of generic competition will be high. If a generic competitor were to formulate a competing product that was approved by the FDA and that gained market acceptance, it would have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and possibly asset valuations, on our business and our guidance. We do not know whether Vancocin will continue to be competitive in the markets which it serves. We currently generate revenues from sales of Vancocin in the U.S. for the treatment of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by Clostridium difficile infection, or C. difficile, and enterocolitis caused by S. aureus, including methicillin-resistant strains. Vancocin sales for treatment of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by C. difficile have increased over the past 12 months; however, Vancocin’s share of the U.S. market for this indication may decrease due to competitive forces and market dynamics, including an increase in the oral use of intravenous vancomycin. Metronidazole, a generic product, is regularly prescribed to treat CDI at costs which are substantially lower than for Vancocin. In addition, products which are currently marketed for other indications by other companies may also be prescribed to treat this indication. Other drugs that are in development by our competitors, including Salix Pharmaceuticals, Optimer Pharmaceuticals and Genzyme Corporation, could be found to have competitive advantages over Vancocin. Approval of new products, or expanded use of currently available products, to treat CDI, and particularly severe disease caused by C. difficile infection, could materially and adversely affect our sales of Vancocin. We rely on a single third party to perform the distribution and logistics services for Vancocin. We rely on a single third party to provide all necessary distribution and logistics services with respect to our sales of Vancocin, including warehousing of finished product, accounts receivable management, billing, collection and recordkeeping. If our third party ceases to be able to provide us with these services, or does not provide these services in a timely or professional manner, it could significantly disrupt our commercial operations, and may result in our not achieving the sales of Vancocin that we expect. Additionally, any interruption to these services could cause a delay in delivering product to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The third party service provider stores and distributes our products from a single warehouse located in the central U.S. A disaster occurring at or near this facility could materially and adversely impact our ability to supply Vancocin to our wholesalers which would result in a reduction in revenues from sales of Vancocin. Our sales are mainly to a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers, and changes in terms required by these wholesalers or disruptions in these relationships could result in us not achieving the sales of Vancocin that we expect. Approximately 93% of our Vancocin sales are to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers. If any of these wholesalers ceases to purchase our product for any reason, then unless and until the remaining wholesalers increase their purchases of Vancocin or alternative distribution channels are established: • our commercial operations could be significantly disrupted; • the availability of Vancocin to patients could be disrupted; and • we may not achieve the sales of Vancocin that we expect, which could decrease our revenues and potentially affect our ability to maintain profitability. We are aware that wholesalers have, in the past, entered into fee-for-service agreements with pharmaceutical companies in connection with the distribution of their products. We currently have one such agreement in place with a wholesaler. Entering into fee-for-service arrangements with additional wholesalers which could result in higher costs to us and adversely affect our net sales. Additionally, we do not require collateral from our wholesalers but rather maintain credit limits and as a result we have an exposure to credit risk in our accounts receivable. The highest account receivable during 2007 we have experienced from any one wholesaler was approximately $13.4 million and we anticipate that this amount could increase if 19 Table of Contents Vancocin sales continue to increase. While we have experienced prompt payment by wholesalers and have not had any defaults on payments owed, a default by a large wholesaler could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. If our supplies of Vancocin API or finished product or any other approved products are interrupted or if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of Vancocin or any other approved products to meet increasing demand for the products, our ability to maintain our inventory levels could suffer and future revenues may be delayed or reduced. We attempt to maintain Vancocin inventory levels to meet our current projections, plus a reasonable stock in excess of those projections. Any interruption in the supply of Vancocin finished products could hinder our ability to timely distribute Vancocin and satisfy customer demand. If we are unable to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our customers’ orders, we may lose those orders, our customers may cancel other orders, and they may choose instead to stock and purchase competing products. This in turn could cause a loss of our market share and negatively affect our revenues. Supply interruptions may occur and our inventory may not always be adequate. We ceased purchasing Vancocin capsules from Lilly in July 2006. In December 2005, we entered into agreements with NPI Pharmaceuticals for the manufacture of finished product and in March 2006 we received the required regulatory approvals for the Vancocin finished product manufactured by NPI Pharmaceuticals. In April 2006 we entered a supply agreement with the API manufacturer to act as our new source of Vancocin API, and we also entered into an additional manufacturing agreement with NPI Pharmaceuticals relating to a scaled-up manufacturing process. We commenced purchasing all Vancocin API and finished goods to satisfy our needs from these parties during the second quarter of 2006. However, we cannot assure you that there will be no disruption in the availability of sufficient supply to meet the demand for Vancocin. Our third party API supplier and finished product supplier are the only manufacturers qualified by the FDA to manufacture API and Vancocin capsule finished product for distribution and sale in the U.S. We are therefore dependent upon one API supplier and one finished product supplier. Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our Vancocin finished products or other approved products, including manufacturing capacity limitations, changes in our sources for manufacturing, our failure to timely locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed and conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials. Lilly experienced a supply interruption during 2002 due to changes in quality standards for Vancocin and its components and there is no assurance that we will not experience similar or dissimilar supply interruptions. In addition, any commercial dispute with any of our suppliers could result in delays in the manufacture of our product, and affect our ability to commercialize our products. We cannot be certain that manufacturing sources will continue to be available or that we can continue to out-source the manufacturing of our products on reasonable or acceptable terms. Any loss of a manufacturer or any difficulties that could arise in the manufacturing process could significantly affect our inventories and supply of products available for sale. If we are unable to supply sufficient amounts of our products on a timely basis, our market share could decrease and, correspondingly, our revenues would decrease. We maintain business interruption insurance which could mitigate some of our loss of income in the event of certain covered interruptions of supply. However, this insurance coverage is unlikely to completely mitigate the harm to our business from the interruption of the manufacturing of products. The loss of a manufacturer could still have a negative effect on our sales and market share, as well as our overall business and financial results. We currently depend, and will in the future continue to depend, on third parties to manufacture our products, including Vancocin and our product candidates. If these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements and the requirements of regulatory authorities, our future revenues may be materially adversely affected. We do not have the internal capability to manufacture quantities of pharmaceutical products to supply our clinical or commercial needs under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, or cGMPs. In order to continue to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, we will need to contract with third parties that have, or otherwise develop, the necessary manufacturing capabilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMPs that are capable of manufacturing our products and product candidates. If we are unable to enter into supply and processing contracts with any of these manufacturers or processors for our development stage product candidates, there may be additional costs and delays in the development and commercialization of these product candidates. If we are required to find an additional or alternative source of supply, there may be additional costs and delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Additionally, the FDA inspects all commercial manufacturing facilities before approving a new drug application, or NDA, for a drug 20 Table of Contents manufactured at those sites. If any of our manufacturers or processors fails to pass this FDA inspection, the approval and eventual commercialization of our products and product candidates may be delayed. All of our contract manufacturers must comply with the applicable cGMPs, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. If our contract manufacturers do not comply with the applicable cGMPs and other FDA regulatory requirements, the availability of marketed products for sale could be reduced, our product commercialization could be delayed or subject to restrictions, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and may lose potential revenue and we could suffer delays in the progress of clinical trials for products under development. We do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Moreover, while we may choose to manufacture products in the future, we have no experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products for clinical trials or commercial purposes. If we decide to manufacture products, we would be subject to the regulatory requirements described above. In addition, we would require substantial additional capital and would be subject to delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. No matter who manufactures the product, we will be subject to continuing obligations regarding the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. If we encounter delays or difficulties with contract manufacturers, packagers or distributors, market introduction and subsequent sales of our products could be delayed. If we change the source or location of supply or modify the manufacturing process, FDA and other regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the product produced by the new source or location or from the modified process is equivalent to the product used in any clinical trials that were conducted. If we are unable to demonstrate this equivalence, we will be unable to manufacture products from the new source or location of supply, or use the modified process, we may incur substantial expenses in order to ensure equivalence, and it may harm our ability to generate revenues. If we, or our manufacturers, are unable to obtain raw and intermediate materials needed to manufacture our products in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we will incur significant costs and sales of our products would be delayed or reduced. We, or the manufacturers with whom we contract, may not be able to maintain adequate relationships with current or future suppliers of raw or intermediate materials for use in manufacturing our products or product candidates. If our current manufacturing sources and suppliers are unable or unwilling to make these materials available to us, or our manufacturers, in required quantities or on acceptable terms, we would likely incur significant costs and delays to qualify alternative manufacturing sources and suppliers. If we are unable to identify and contract with alternative manufacturers when needed, sales of our products would be delayed or reduced and will result in significant additional costs. Our future product revenues from sales of Vancocin could be reduced by imports from countries where Vancocin is available at lower prices. Vancocin has been approved for sale outside of the U.S., including but not limited to Canada, Brazil and Europe, and Lilly or its licensees continue to market Vancocin outside of the U.S. There have been cases in which pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in markets outside the U.S. and then imported to the United States where they could be resold at prices higher than the original discounted price, but lower than the prices commercially available in the U.S. If this happens with Vancocin our revenues would be adversely affected. Additionally, there are non-U.S., Internet-based companies supplying Vancocin directly to patients at significantly reduced prices. In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in the U.S. Congress and in some state legislatures that would authorize re-importation of pharmaceutical products into the U.S. from other countries including Canada. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, which if adopted, could result in increased competition for our products and lower prices. Orders for Vancocin may fluctuate depending on the inventory levels held by our major customers. Significant increases and decreases in orders from our major customers could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our customers for Vancocin include some of the nation’s leading wholesale pharmaceutical distributors. We attempt to monitor wholesaler inventory of our products using a combination of methods, including tracking prescriptions filled at the pharmacy level to determine inventory amounts sold from the wholesalers to their customers. In addition, during the third quarter of 2006, we began receiving inventory data from two of our three largest wholesalers through our fee for service agreements. We do not independently verify this data. However, our estimates of wholesaler inventories may differ significantly from actual inventory levels. We may not be able to continue to receive inventory data from the wholesalers in 21 Table of Contents the future. In the event we are no longer able to receive inventory data from the wholesalers, we will have to rely on other methods of estimating the levels of inventory held by wholesalers which may be less accurate than receiving the data directly from wholesalers. Significant differences between actual and estimated inventory levels may result in excessive inventory production, inadequate supplies of products in distribution channels, insufficient or excess product available at the retail level, and unexpected increases or decreases in orders from our major customers. Forward-buying by wholesalers, for example, may result in significant and unexpected changes in customer orders from quarter to quarter. These changes may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and in some cases may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to be below our expectations or projections. If our financial results are below expectations for a particular period, the market price of our securities may drop significantly. Historically, Vancocin has been subject to limitations on the amount of payment and reimbursement available to patients from third party payors. Historically, only a portion of the cost of Vancocin prescriptions is paid for or reimbursed by managed care organizations, government and other third-party payors. This reimbursement policy makes Vancocin less attractive, from a net-cost perspective, to patients and, to a lesser degree, prescribing physicians. For example, metronidazole, a drug frequently prescribed for CDI, is significantly less expensive than Vancocin. If adequate reimbursement levels are not provided for Vancocin, or if reimbursement policies increasingly favor other products, our market share and net sales could be negatively affected, as could our overall business and financial condition. Our long-term success depends upon our ability to develop, receive regulatory approval for and commercialize drug product candidates and if we are not successful, our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of products resulting from our product candidates will be limited. All of our drug candidates will require governmental approvals prior to commercialization. We have not completed the development of or received regulatory approval to commercialize any of our existing product candidates. Our failure to develop, receive regulatory approvals for and commercialize our development stage product candidates successfully will prevent us from generating revenues from the sale of products resulting from our product candidates. Our product candidates are in the development stage and may not be shown to be safe or effective. We initiated a phase 3 study in stem cell transplant patients for Camvia in September 2006 and a second phase 3 study in liver transplant patients in July 2007. While our phase 2 data for Camvia were positive, Camvia requires significant additional development efforts and regulatory approvals prior to any commercialization. The primary end point for our phase 3 studies with Camvia is different than the end point used in our phase 2 stem cell transplant study. Moreover, our phase 3 study in liver transplant patients is in a population that we have never studied. The results of ongoing and future studies of Camvia may be inconsistent with the results from previous studies and may not support further clinical development or regulatory approval. We initiated our phase 2 program with Wyeth for HCV-796 in October 2006. In August 2007, we and Wyeth decided to discontinue dosing with HCV-796 in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin in our phase 2 study as 8% of patients showed elevated liver enzyme levels after 8 weeks or more of therapy with HCV-796 with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. We and Wyeth continue to evaluate the observations that led to this decision in the hope of advancing this potential therapeutic agent in the future, however there can be no assurance that we will conduct additional HCV studies in the future as the FDA or other regulatory authorities may either prohibit any future studies with HCV-796 or alternatively may require additional or unanticipated studies or clinical trial outcomes before granting regulatory approval. In February 2006, we entered into a licensing agreement for the rights to develop non-toxigenic strains of C. difficile (NTCD) for the treatment and prevention of CDI. We plan to initially focus our efforts on the opportunity to prevent recurrence of CDI following treatment with Vancocin®. NTCD is in the preclinical phase which we will move into humans during 2008. This compound has never been studied and we can not predict the outcome of testing in humans. These results may not support further clinical development. We cannot be certain that our efforts and the efforts of our partners in this regard will lead to commercially viable products. Negative, inconclusive or inconsistent clinical trial results could prevent regulatory approval, increase the cost and timing of regulatory approval, cause us to perform additional studies or to file for a narrower indication than planned. We do not know what the final cost to manufacture product candidates in commercial quantities will be, or the dose required to treat patients and, consequently, what the total cost of goods for a treatment regimen will be. If we are unable to successfully develop our product candidates, we will not have a source of revenue other than Vancocin. 22 Table of Contents Moreover, the failure of one or more of our product candidates in clinical development could harm our ability to raise additional capital. Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. The development of any of our product candidates is subject to many risks, including that: • the product candidate is found to be ineffective or unsafe; • the clinical test results for the product candidate delay or prevent regulatory approval; • the FDA or other regulatory authorities forbid us to initiate or continue testing of the product candidates in human clinical trials; • the product candidate cannot be developed into a commercially viable product; • the product candidate is difficult and/or costly to manufacture; • the product candidate later is discovered to cause adverse effects that prevent widespread use, require withdrawal from the market, or serve as the basis for product liability claims; • third party competitors hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing the product candidate; and • third party competitors market a more clinically effective, safer, or more cost-effective product. Even if we believe that the clinical data demonstrates the safety and efficacy of a product candidate, regulators may disagree with us, which could delay, limit or prevent the approval of such product candidate. As a result, we may not obtain regulatory approval, or even if a product is approved, we may not obtain the labeling claims we believe are necessary or desirable for the promotion of the product. In addition, regulatory approval may take longer than we expect as a result of a number of factors, including failure to qualify for priority review of our application. All statutes and regulations governing the approval of our product candidates are subject to change in the future. These changes may increase the time or cost of regulatory approval, limit approval, or prevent it completely. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, or acquire the rights to additional already approved products, the later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in adverse consequences, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Approval of a product candidate may be conditioned upon certain limitations and restrictions as to the drug’s use, or upon the conduct of further studies, and may be subject to continuous review. The regulatory process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of our product candidates. We have product candidates for the prevention and treatment of CMV and treatment of HCV in clinical development. Schering-Plough is conducting the clinical development of pleconaril. We must complete significant laboratory, animal and clinical testing on these product candidates before we submit marketing applications in the U.S. and abroad. The rate of completion of clinical trials depends upon many factors, including the rates of initiation of clinical sites and enrollment of patients. For example, our enrollment of patients in our phase 2 clinical trial for Camvia was impacted by our ability to identify and successfully recruit a sufficient number of patients who have undergone allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell/bone marrow transplantation. Our phase 3 studies for Camvia will require substantially more clinical sites and patients than were required for the phase 2 studies, and many of these clinical sites and patients are expected to be in Europe. We do not have extensive experience in executing clinical trials in Europe. We also initiated a second phase 3 study of Camvia in liver transplant patients. We have never conducted clinical studies in this population. If we are unable to initiate a sufficient number of clinical sites and accrue sufficient clinical patients who are eligible to participate in the trials during the appropriate period, we may need to delay our clinical trials and incur significant additional costs. In addition, the FDA, Independent Safety Monitoring Boards or Institutional Review Boards may require us to delay, restrict, or discontinue our clinical trials on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk such as the partial clinical hold we have received with regard to HCV-796. We expect to submit an initial NDA filing in 23 Table of Contents 2009 for Camvia. However, we may be unable to submit a NDA to the FDA or marketing petitions to other regulatory authorities such as the EMEA for our product candidates within the time frame we currently expect. Once an NDA or other form of petition for marketing authority is submitted, it must be approved by the FDA before we can commercialize the product described in the application. The cost of human clinical trials varies dramatically based on a number of factors, including: • the number, order and timing of clinical indications pursued; • the extent of development and financial support from corporate collaborators; • the number of patients required for enrollment; • the length of time required to enroll these patients; • the costs and difficulty of obtaining clinical supplies of the product candidate; and • the difficulty in obtaining sufficient patient populations and clinicians. Even if we obtain positive preclinical or clinical trial results in initial studies, future clinical trial results may not be similarly positive. As a result, ongoing and contemplated clinical testing, if permitted by governmental authorities, may not demonstrate that a product candidate is safe and effective in the patient population and for the disease indications for which we believe it will be commercially advantageous to market the product. The failure of our clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidate for the desired indications could delay the commercialization of the product. In 2003, Congress enacted the Pediatric Research Equity Act requiring the development and submission of pediatric use data for new drug products. Our failure to obtain these data, or to obtain a deferral of, or exemption from, this requirement could adversely affect our chances of receiving regulatory approval, or could result in regulatory or legal enforcement actions. Even after regulatory approval is received, as with Vancocin, if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our approved products, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Vancocin is, and any other product for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authority will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. After approval of a product, we will have, and with Vancocin, we currently have, significant ongoing regulatory compliance obligations related to manufacturing processes, quality control, labeling, post-approval clinical data collection and promotional activities for each such product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in penalties or other actions, including: • warning letters; • fines; • product recalls; • withdrawal of regulatory approval; • operating restrictions, including restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; • disgorgement of profits; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. Over the past few years, a significant number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of inquiries and investigations by various federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities, including the DOJ and various U.S. Attorney’s Offices, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and 24 Table of Contents Human Services, the FDA, the FTC and various state Attorneys General offices. These investigations have alleged violations of various federal and state laws and regulations, including claims asserting antitrust violations, violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the False Claims Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, anti-kickback laws, and other alleged violations in connection with off-label promotion of products, pricing and Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement. It is both costly and time-consuming for us to comply with these extensive regulations to which we are subject. Additionally, incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to withdrawal of a product from the market. Any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. There are many potential competitors with respect to our product candidates under development, who may develop products and technologies that make ours non-competitive or obsolete. There are many entities, both public and private, including well-known, large pharmaceutical companies, chemical companies, biotechnology companies and research institutions, engaged in developing pharmaceuticals for applications similar to those targeted by our products under development. There are products already marketed by F. Hoffman La-Roche, AstraZeneca and Gilead Sciences Inc. for the prevention and treatment of CMV and Schering-Plough and F. Hoffman La-Roche for the treatment of HCV. We are aware of a number of other companies which have compounds in various stages of clinical development for the treatment of HCV. Developments by these or other entities may render our product candidates non-competitive or obsolete. Furthermore, many of our competitors are more experienced than we are in drug development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals and product manufacturing and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products more rapidly and more effectively than we do for our product candidates. Competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective and less costly than any that we develop and also may prove to be more successful in the manufacturing and marketing of products. Any product that we successfully develop and for which we gain regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Accordingly, important competitive factors, in addition to completion of clinical testing and the receipt of regulatory approval, will include product efficacy, safety, timing and scope of regulatory approvals, availability of supply, marketing and sales capacity, reimbursement coverage, pricing and patent protection. Our products could also be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by regulatory or competitive changes. In order to continue to expand our business and sustain our revenue growth, we will need to acquire additional marketed products or product candidates in clinical development through in-licensing or the acquisitions of businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with us. We may not be able to in-license or acquire suitable products at an acceptable price or at all. In addition, engaging in any in-licensing or acquisitions will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such in-license or acquisition. As part of our long-term strategy and in order to sustain our revenue growth, we intend to seek to acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates in clinical development to treat the patient population targeted by Vancocin and our current product candidates, or products / product candidates in clinical development to treat other diseases for which patients are treated by physician specialists or in hospital settings. Even if we are able to locate products, product candidates in clinical development or businesses that fit within our strategic focus, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate agreements to acquire or in-license such additional products or product candidates in clinical development on acceptable terms or at all. Further, if we acquire a product, product candidates in clinical development or business, the process of integrating the acquired product, product candidates in clinical development or business may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, such as an acquired product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. We cannot assure you that an acquired product, product candidates in clinical development or business will have the intended effect of helping us to sustain our revenue growth. If we are unable to do so, our business could be materially adversely affected. Any of our future products may not be accepted by the market, which would harm our business and results of 25 Table of Contents operations. Even if approved by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, our product candidates may not achieve market acceptance by patients, prescribers and third-party payors. As a result, we may not receive revenues from these products as anticipated. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals, and the scope of marketing and promotion activities permitted by such approvals (e.g., the “label” for the product approved by the FDA); • the availability of third-party reimbursement from payors such as government health programs and private health insurers; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community, such as doctors and hospital administrators, of the clinical safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of drug candidates, as well as their advantages over existing treatment alternatives, if any; • the effectiveness of the sales and marketing force that may be promoting our products; and • the effectiveness of our contract manufacturers. If our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance by a sufficient number of patients, prescribers and third-party payors, our business will be materially adversely affected. We have limited sales and marketing infrastructure and if we are unable to develop our own sales and marketing capability we may be unsuccessful in commercializing our products. Under our agreement with GSK, we have the exclusive right to market and sell Camvia throughout the world, other than Japan. Under our agreement with Wyeth, we have the right to co-promote HCV products arising from our collaboration in the U.S. and Canada. Schering-Plough is solely responsible for the marketing, promotion and sale of intranasal pleconaril following its approval. We currently have a limited marketing staff and during the third quarter of 2007, we made the decision to, for the first time, create a small sales organization targeting teaching institutions to promote Vancocin. Our sales organization is expected to commence operations during the first quarter of 2008. As a result of our acquisition of Vancocin, we established a small group of regional medical scientists and commenced medical education programs. We are expanding our commercial marketing organization in the United States and Europe and intend to build a sales force to prepare for the potential commercialization of Camvia if and when regulatory approvals are received. The development of a marketing and sales capability for our marketed product, product candidates in clinical development, or for products that we may acquire if we are successful in our business development efforts, could require significant expenditures, management resources and time. We may be unable to build a marketing and sales capability, the cost of establishing such a marketing and sales capability may exceed any product revenues, and our marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. If we are unable to successfully establish a sales and marketing capability in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Even if we are able to develop a sales force, we may not successfully penetrate the markets for any of our proposed products. We depend on collaborations with third parties, which may reduce our product revenues or restrict our ability to commercialize products, and also ties our success to the success of our collaborators. We have entered into, and may in the future enter into additional, sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, development, licensing and other strategic arrangements with third parties. For example, in November 2004, we announced that we entered into a license agreement with Schering-Plough under which Schering-Plough assumed responsibility for all future development and commercialization of pleconaril. Sanofi-Aventis also has exclusive rights to market and sell pleconaril in countries other than the U.S. and Canada for which we will receive a royalty. Schering-Plough will receive a portion of any royalty payments made to us under our license agreement with Sanofi-Aventis for rights to pleconaril. In August 2003, we entered into a license agreement with GSK under which we acquired exclusive worldwide rights, excluding Japan, from GSK to develop and commercialize an antiviral compound, Camvia, for the prevention and treatment of CMV infections related to transplant, including solid organ and hematopoietic stem cell / bone marrow transplantation, congenital transmission, and in patients with HIV infection. GSK retained the exclusive right to market and sell products covered by these patents and patent applications in Japan. 26 Table of Contents In December 1999, we entered into an agreement with Wyeth to develop jointly products for use in treating the effects of HCV in humans. Under the agreement, we exclusively licensed to Wyeth worldwide rights under patents and know-how owned by us or created under the agreement. While we have the right to co-promote these products in the U.S. and Canada, Wyeth has the exclusive right to promote these products elsewhere in the world, for which we will receive a royalty. Wyeth also has the exclusive right to manufacture any commercial products developed under the agreement. If any of Wyeth, Schering-Plough or Sanofi-Aventis do not successfully market and sell products in their respective territories, we will not receive revenue from royalties on their sales of products. We are currently engaged in additional discussions relating to other arrangements. We cannot be sure that we will be able to enter into any such arrangements with third parties on terms acceptable to us or at all. Third party arrangements may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive marketing rights to one or more products, or may have other terms that are burdensome to us. Our ultimate success may depend upon the success of our collaborators. We have obtained from Sanofi-Aventis and GSK, and will attempt to obtain in the future, licensed rights to certain proprietary technologies and compounds from other entities, individuals and research institutions, for which we may be obligated to pay license fees, make milestone payments and pay royalties. In addition, we may in the future enter into collaborative arrangements for the marketing, sales and distribution of our product candidates, which may require us to share profits or revenues. We may be unable to enter into additional collaborative licensing or other arrangements that we need to develop and commercialize our drug candidates. Moreover, we may not realize the contemplated benefits from such collaborative licensing or other arrangements. These arrangements may place responsibility on our collaborative partners for preclinical testing, human clinical trials, the preparation and submission of applications for regulatory approval, or for marketing, sales and distribution support for product commercialization. We cannot be certain that any of these parties will fulfill their obligations in a manner consistent with our best interests. These arrangements may also require us to transfer certain material rights or issue our equity securities to corporate partners, licensees or others. Any license or sublicense of our commercial rights may reduce our product revenue. Moreover, we may not derive any revenues or profits from these arrangements. In addition, our current strategic arrangements may not continue and we may be unable to enter into future collaborations. Collaborators may also pursue alternative technologies or drug candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that are in direct competition with us. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Two of our current product candidates are based on intellectual property that we have licensed from Sanofi-Aventis and GSK. Another clinical development program involves a joint development program with Wyeth pursuant to which we licensed to Wyeth worldwide rights within a certain field under patents and know-how owned by us or created under the agreement. We depend, and will continue to depend, on these license agreements. All of our license agreements may be terminated if, among other events, we fail to satisfy our obligations as they relate to the development of the particular product candidate. All of our license agreements, other than the agreements with Lilly regarding Vancocin, may also be terminated if we breach that license agreement and do not cure the breach within specified time periods or in the event of our bankruptcy or liquidation. Our agreement with Lilly permits it to suspend the licenses granted to us by Lilly in the event of uncured defaults by us until such time as the default is cured or otherwise resolved. Our license agreement with GSK imposes various obligations on us, including milestone payment requirements and royalties. If we fail to comply with these obligations, GSK has or may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to market products covered by the license. Disputes may arise with respect to our licensing agreements regarding manufacturing, development and commercialization of any of the particular product candidates. These disputes could lead to delays in or termination of the development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates or to litigation. Many other entities seek to establish collaborative arrangements for product research and development, or otherwise acquire products, in competition with us. We face competition from large and small companies within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry as well as public and private research organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies in acquiring products and establishing collaborative arrangements for product development. Many of the companies and institutions that compete against us have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities than we have, and substantially greater 27 Table of Contents experience in conducting business development activities. These entities represent significant competition to us as we seek to expand further our pipeline through the in-license or acquisition of additional products in clinical development, or that are currently on the market. Moreover, while it is not feasible to predict the actual cost of acquiring additional product candidates, that cost could be substantial. We may need additional financing in order to acquire additional new products. We have a history of losses prior to 2005 and our continued profitability is uncertain. Prior to 2005 we had incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1994. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.4 million. We achieved profitability for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2004 and have maintained profitability in each of the following quarters. Our ability to maintain profitability is dependent on a number of factors, including continued revenues from Vancocin sales, our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, successfully commercializing those product candidates, generating revenues from the sale of products from existing and potential future collaborative agreements, and securing contract manufacturing, distribution and logistics services. We do not know when or if we will acquire additional products to expand further our product portfolio, complete our product development efforts, receive regulatory approval of any of our product candidates or successfully commercialize any approved products. We expect to incur significant additional expenses over several years, and Vancocin’s ability to generate substantial cash flows over this timeframe could be materially and adversely affected by the introduction of effective generic or branded competing products. As a result, we are unable to accurately predict with a significant degree of certainty whether we will be able to maintain profitability and if not, the extent of any future losses or the time required to regain profitability, if at all. Our strategic plan may not achieve the intended results. In January 2004 we made the strategic decision to focus on development of later stage opportunities by expanding our product portfolio through the acquisition of complementary clinical development stage or commercial product opportunities as a means to accelerate our path toward becoming a profitable pharmaceutical company. As a result of this strategic decision, we substantially discontinued our early stage activities, including discovery research and most internal preclinical development activities. Our restructuring efforts have placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We may not be successful in executing our strategy. We may not be able to in-license or acquire suitable products at an acceptable price or at all. In addition, engaging in any in-licensing or acquisitions will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such in-license or acquisition. We may need additional financing in order to acquire additional new products or product candidates. We may not have sufficient resources to execute our plans, and our actual expenses over the periods described in this report may vary. In addition to the points noted above, our ability to sustain profitability is dependent on developing and obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates, successfully commercializing such product candidates, which may include entering into collaborative agreements for product development and commercialization, acquiring additional products through our business development efforts, and securing contract manufacturing services and distribution and logistics services. We will rely on our employees, consultants, contractors, suppliers, manufacturers and collaborators to keep our trade secrets confidential. We rely on trade secrets, trademarks, and unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing and manufacturing our products, including Vancocin, in order to protect our significant investment in these products from the risk of discovery by generic drug manufacturers and other potential competition. We require each of our employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, suppliers, manufacturers and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements prohibiting them from taking our proprietary information and technology or from using or disclosing proprietary information to third parties except in specified circumstances. The agreements also provide that all inventions conceived by an employee, consultant or advisor, to the extent appropriate for the services provided during the course of the relationship, are our exclusive property, other than inventions unrelated to us and developed entirely on the individual’s own time. Nevertheless, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets and proprietary know-how if they are used or disclosed. Despite all of the precautions we may take, people who are not parties to confidentiality agreements may obtain access to our trade secrets or know-how. In addition, others may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. We depend on patents and proprietary rights for our products which are in clinical development, which may offer only limited protection against potential infringement, and if we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary 28 Table of Contents rights, we may lose the right to develop, manufacture, market or sell products and lose sources of revenue. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain a strong patent position for our products and technologies in clinical development, both in the U.S. and in other countries. Litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents, or to protect our trade secrets, and could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. We intend to file applications as appropriate for patents describing the composition of matter of our drug candidates, the proprietary processes for producing such compositions, and the uses of our drug candidates. We own three issued U.S. patents, one non-U.S. patents and have a number of pending U.S. patent applications, some of which we co-own with collaborators. We also have filed international, regional and non-U.S. national patent applications in order to pursue patent protection in major foreign countries. Many of our scientific and management personnel were previously employed by competing companies. As a result, such companies may allege trade secret violations and similar claims against us. To facilitate development of our proprietary technology base, we may need to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. If we are unable to obtain such licenses, our product development efforts may be delayed. We may collaborate with universities and governmental research organizations which, as a result, may acquire certain rights to any inventions or technical information derived from such collaboration. We may incur substantial costs in asserting any patent rights and in defending suits against us related to intellectual property rights, even if we are ultimately successful. If we are unsuccessful in defending a claim that we have infringed or misappropriated the intellectual property of a third party, we could be required to pay substantial damages, stop using the disputed technology, develop new non-infringing technologies, or obtain one or more licenses from third parties. If we or our licensors seek to enforce our patents, a court may determine that our patents or our licensors’ patents are invalid or unenforceable, or that the defendant’s activity is not covered by the scope of our patents or our licensors’ patents. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a private party could institute an interference proceeding relating to our patents or patent applications. An opposition or revocation proceeding could be instituted in the patent offices of foreign jurisdictions. An adverse decision in any such proceeding could result in the loss of our rights to a patent or invention. If our licensors do not protect our rights under our license agreements with them or do not reasonably consent to our sublicense of rights or if these license agreements are terminated, we may lose revenue and expend significant resources defending our rights. We have licensed from GSK worldwide rights, excluding Japan, to an antiviral compound, Camvia, for the prevention and treatment of CMV infections related to transplant, including solid organ and hematopoietic stem cell/bone marrow transplantation, congenital transmission, and in patients with HIV infection. This compound, and a related compound, are subject to patents and patent applications in a variety of countries throughout the world. We have licensed from Sanofi-Aventis the exclusive U.S. and Canadian rights to certain antiviral agents for use in picornavirus indications, which are the subject of U.S. and Canadian patents and patent applications owned by Sanofi-Aventis, certain of which describe pleconaril and others of which describe compounds that are either related to pleconaril or have antiviral activity. We sublicensed our rights under these patents to Schering-Plough. We depend on GSK and Sanofi-Aventis to prosecute and maintain many of these patents and patent applications and protect such patent rights. Failure by GSK or Sanofi-Aventis to prosecute or maintain such patents or patent applications and protect such patent rights could lead to our loss of revenue. Under certain circumstances, our ability to sublicense our rights under these license agreements is subject to the licensor’s consent. If our license agreements with GSK and Sanofi-Aventis are terminated, our ability to manufacture, develop, market and sell products under those agreements would terminate. Our successful commercialization of our products will depend, in part, on the availability and adequacy of third party reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., private health insurers and other organizations. Federal and state regulations govern or influence the reimbursement to health care providers of fees in connection with medical treatment of certain patients. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that could limit the amount that state or federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of drugs. Continued significant changes in the health care system could have a material adverse effect on our business. Decisions by state regulatory agencies, including state pharmacy boards, and/or retail pharmacies may require substitution of generic for branded products, may prefer competitors’ 29 Table of Contents products over our own, and may impair our pricing and thereby constrain our market share and growth. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. could put pressure on the price and usage of our product candidates, which may in turn adversely impact future product sales. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, particularly for indications for which there is no current effective treatment or for which medical care typically is not sought. Adequate third-party coverage may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. If adequate coverage and reimbursement levels are not provided by government and third-party payors for use of our products, our products may fail to achieve market acceptance and we could lose anticipated revenues and experience delayed achievement of profitability. In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in the U.S. Congress and in some state legislatures that include major changes in the health care system. These proposals have included price or patient reimbursement constraints on medicines and restrictions on access to certain products. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, and it is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting us. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our ability to compete. We are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel, including our President and CEO, Michel de Rosen, our Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Vincent J. Milano, our Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, Colin Broom, our Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Daniel Soland, our Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs and Quality, Robert Pietrusko and our Vice President, Strategic Initiatives, Thomas Doyle. Our ability to grow and expand into new areas and activities will require additional expertise and the addition of new qualified personnel in both the United States and Europe. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Furthermore, we have not entered into non-competition agreements or employment agreements with our key employees. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would harm our development programs, and our ability to manage day-to-day operations, attract collaboration partners, attract and retain other employees and generate revenues. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. We may be subject to product liability claims, which can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or after marketing clearance is obtained, can result in product liability claims. Product liability claims can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us. In addition, third party collaborators and licensees may not protect us from product liability claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance in connection with our clinical development programs and marketing of Vancocin. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities arising from clinical development or product sales. If we are unable to obtain sufficient levels of insurance at acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to product liability claims. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. In addition, any successful claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable terms. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim may be time-consuming and expensive. We previously used hazardous materials in our business and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Prior to our restructuring in January 2004, we used radioactive and other materials that could be hazardous to human health, safety or the environment. In connection with our restructuring in January 2004, we decommissioned our discovery laboratories, which required the disposal of many of these materials. We are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes. We stored these materials and various wastes resulting from their use at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies, the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials cannot be entirely eliminated. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply 30 Table of Contents with environmental laws, rules, regulations and policies. Additionally, if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our resources. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks and we do not have reserves set aside for environmental claims. Any future environmental claims could harm our financial conditions, results of operations, liquidity and prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. In addition, compliance with future environmental laws, rules, regulations and policies could lead to additional costs and expenses. The rights that have been and may in the future be granted to holders of our common or preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of other stockholders and may discourage a takeover. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 4,800,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, privileges and other terms of such shares. Our board of directors may exercise this authority without the approval of, or notice to, our stockholders. Accordingly, the rights of the holders of our common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock in order to effect a change in control or replace our current management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The application of Section 203 could also delay or prevent a third party or a significant stockholder of ours from acquiring control of us or replacing our current management. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Generally, a business combination includes a merger, asset or stock sale, or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Under Delaware law, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. In September 1998, our board of directors adopted a plan that grants each holder of our common stock the right to purchase shares of our series A junior participating preferred stock. This plan is designed to help insure that all our stockholders receive fair value for their shares of common stock in the event of a proposed takeover of us, and to guard against the use of partial tender offers or other coercive tactics to gain control of us without offering fair value to the holders of our common stock. In addition, our charter and bylaws contain certain provisions that could discourage a hostile takeover, such as a staggered board of directors and significant notice provisions for nominations of directors and proposals. The plan and our charter and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock in order to effect a change in control or replace our current management. Our stock price could continue to be volatile. Our stock price, like the market price of the stock of other pharmaceutical companies, has been volatile. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2007, the market price for our common stock fluctuated between $18.39 and $7.11 per share. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market for our common stock: • period to period fluctuations in sales of Vancocin; • approvals of generic products that compete with Vancocin; • results of clinical trials with respect to our product candidates in development or those of our competitors; • developments with our collaborators; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; • litigation or public concern relating to our products or our competitors’ products; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights of ours or our competitors (including related litigation); • any other future announcements concerning us or our competitors; • any announcement regarding our acquisition of product candidates or entities; 31 Table of Contents • future announcements concerning our industry; • governmental regulation; • changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws and related regulations; • actions or decisions by the SEC, the FDA or other regulatory agencies; • changes or announcements of changes in reimbursement policies; • period to period fluctuations in our operating results, including changes in accounting estimates; • our cash and cash equivalents balances; • changes in our capital structure; • changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • market conditions applicable to our business sector; and • general market conditions. Future sales of our common stock in the public market or issuances of our common stock pursuant to the terms of the senior convertible notes, outstanding options or otherwise, could adversely affect our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. We have an effective registration statement on Form S-3 which allows us to sell up to $39 million of securities in one or more public offerings. The registration statement provides us with the flexibility to determine the type of security we choose to sell, including common stock, preferred stock, warrants and debt securities, as well as the ability to time such sales when market conditions are favorable. The conversion of some or all of our 2.0% senior convertible notes due 2017 after our stock price reaches $18.87 per share will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. The senior convertible notes initially are convertible into approximately 13.25 million shares of our common stock. To the extent we issue any shares of our common stock upon conversion of the notes, the conversion of some or all of the notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares of our common stock upon prior conversion of the notes. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. As of December 31, 2007 we had outstanding options to purchase 2,603,697 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $8.43 per share (583,400 of which have not yet vested) issued to employees, directors and consultants pursuant to our 1995 Stock Option and Restricted Share Plan, outstanding options to purchase 2,213,345 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $14.54 per share (1,888,292 of which have not yet vested) issued to employees, directors and consultants pursuant to our 2005 Stock Option and Restricted Share Plan and outstanding options to purchase 156,948 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $6.71 per share (102,500 of which have not yet vested) to non-executive employees pursuant to our 2001 Equity Incentive Plan. In order to attract and retain key personnel, we may issue additional securities, including stock options, restricted stock grants and shares of common stock, in connection with our employee benefit plans, or may lower the price of existing stock options. Sale, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of common stock by our existing stockholders pursuant to an effective registration statement or under Rule 144, through the exercise of registration rights or the issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options or warrants, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the senior convertible notes and our common stock. 32 Table of Contents In connection with the issuance of the senior convertible senior notes, we have entered into privately-negotiated transactions with two counterparties (the “counterparties”), comprised of purchased call options and warrants sold. These transactions are expected to generally reduce the potential equity dilution of our common stock upon conversion of the senior convertible notes. In connection with establishing their initial hedge of these transactions, the counterparties may have entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly after, the pricing of the senior convertible notes. These activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the price of our common stock concurrently with or following the pricing of the senior convertible notes. In addition, the counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may modify their hedge positions following the pricing of the senior convertible notes from time to time by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or by purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock or could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our common stock. Additionally, these transactions expose the Company to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. The Company manages its exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific minimum credit standards, and diversification of counterparties. The potential effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the senior convertible notes or the shares of our common stock. In addition, we do not make any representation that the counterparties will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice. The fundamental change purchase feature of the senior convertible notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company. The terms of the senior convertible notes require us to purchase the senior convertible notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change. A takeover of our company would trigger the requirement that we purchase the senior convertible notes. Alternatively, if certain transactions that constitute a fundamental change occur, under certain circumstances, we will increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of our common stock to compensate holders for the lost option time value of the senior convertible notes as a result of such transaction. This increased conversion rate will apply only to holders who convert their senior convertible notes in connection with any such transaction. The number of the additional shares of our common stock will be determined based on the date on which the transaction becomes effective and the price paid per share of our common stock. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. Our increased indebtedness as a result of the senior convertible notes issuance may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2007 is $250.0 million and represents approximately 33.6% of our total capitalization. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, because: • a portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make a payment on the senior convertible notes, we could be in default on the senior convertible notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. Conversely, a default on our other outstanding indebtedness may cause a default under the senior convertible notes. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 