Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the specific risk factors set forth below and other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. You should note that the risks described below are not the only risks that we face. The risks listed below are only those risks relating to our operations that we consider to be material. There may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be 11 Table of Contents material or that we are not currently aware of, that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose the money they paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Our success depends on our ability to manage our growth and integrate our acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we regularly consider and, as appropriate, make acquisitions of assets and businesses that we believe are complementary to our businesses. Acquisitions typically entail many risks, including: • diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • potential loss of key employees; • potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; and • adverse effects on reported operating results due to acquisition costs and expenses associated with integrating and assimilating the operations of the acquired businesses. We have experienced a period of rapid growth from acquisitions in our cruise and marine businesses. This growth has placed significant demands on our human and financial resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information controls and systems and effectively motivate, train and manage our employees to properly manage this growth. Even if these steps are taken, there can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses without substantial costs, delays and/or other operational or financial problems. If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing businesses, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the market price of our stock. Prior to our acquisition of cruise-related assets and businesses in 2006 and our acquisition of Bellingham Marine in 2006, we had no experience in operating a cruise business or marina construction business. Our recent cruise and marina construction acquisitions expose us to new risks associated with entering new lines of business that we had limited or no experience operating. We anticipate that there may be many things we still need to learn and master to be successful in these new endeavors. Moreover, we have a limited operating history within our cruise and marine segments, which may make it difficult to predict our long-term success. Failure to successfully manage the risks associated with the development and implementation of new lines of business could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates in the future, our continued growth and financial performance may be adversely affected. Our recent growth is attributable to our acquisitions of American West, the cruise-related assets of Delta Queen, Windstar Cruises and Bellingham Marine. A significant element of our business strategy is to continue to acquire assets or businesses that are complementary to our businesses. We compete for acquisition opportunities with other companies, many of which have greater name recognition, marketing support and financial resources than we have, which may result in a diminished number of acquisition opportunities available to us and higher acquisition prices. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify, pursue or acquire any targeted businesses or make any acquisitions on terms favorable to us. If we fail to identify and complete acquisitions in the future, our growth and financial performance may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents In connection with our acquisitions within the cruise segment, we assumed or incurred a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our cash flows and business. In connection with our 2006 acquisitions of American West and the cruise-related assets of Delta Queen, we assumed indebtedness that greatly exceeded our historical levels of indebtedness. We assumed $41.5 million in fixed-rate, 4.63% debt payable through 2028 in connection with our acquisition of American West. We also assumed $35.0 million of fixed-rate, 6.5% debt payable through 2020 as a result of our acquisition of the cruise-related assets of Delta Queen. In 2007, we assumed an additional $60.0 million in seller financing from our acquisition of Windstar Cruises, payable at 7.0% through 2017. The Windstar Cruises seller financing was paid in full in April 2007 through the use of proceeds received from a $97.0 million offering of 3.75% senior convertible notes due April 15, 2027. Interest on the convertible notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year, commencing October 15, 2007. As a result of this debt, demands on our cash resources have increased. The increased levels of debt could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to, and limit flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; • adversely affect our credit rating; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the repayment of debt. If we are unable to manage our financial resources during our expansion, our financial performance may be adversely affected. A substantial portion of our available cash could be used in order to invest in the operations of the businesses we have recently acquired. We may also seek to finance operations through debt or equity financings. In addition, we may use cash to consummate potential acquisitions of businesses within the cruise or marine segments. There can be no assurance that financing for operational use or for potential acquisitions will be available at all or on terms acceptable to us. If the consideration for an acquisition includes equity securities, our stockholders could experience dilution. In addition, our plans for growth and expansion will require significant capital expenditures that may not produce corresponding revenues in the near term, which may place a strain on our capital resources. The process of expanding our fleet of ships may require additional financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing operation of our existing fleet of ships. Our failure to manage our financial resources effectively during our expansion could force us to delay or abandon some of our expansion plans and may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial performance is subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. Our businesses are seasonal. We recognize cruise-related revenues at the completion of the cruise. We recognize revenue for marine and related services in accordance with the respective contracts. We recognize travel, incentive and event-related revenues in the month a program operates. We recognize insurance premiums as revenue over the period of the insurance contracts in proportion to the amount of the insurance coverage provided. Prior to 2006, the majority of our operating results were recognized in the first and second quarters of each fiscal year, which corresponds to the busy season in our travel and events segment. As a result of the acquisitions within our cruise segment and the size of our cruise operations in relation to our overall operations, a majority of our operating results will be recognized in the second and third quarters of each fiscal year, which coincides with the cruising season. Our future annual results could be adversely affected if our revenue were to be substantially below seasonal norms 13 Table of Contents during the second and third quarters of each fiscal year. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: • our ability to effectively and efficiently operate our cruise operations; • customer cancellation rates; • competitive conditions in the industries in which we operate; • marketing expenses; • extreme weather conditions; • timing of and costs related to acquisitions; • the impact of new laws and regulations affecting our business; • negative incidents involving cruise ships, including those involving the health and safety of passengers; • cruise ship maintenance problems; • reduced consumer demand for vacations and cruise vacations; • changes in fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs; • the availability of raw materials; • our ability to enter into profitable marina construction contracts; • changes in relationships with certain travel providers; • changes in vacation industry capacity; • the mix of programs and events, program destinations and event locations; • the introduction and acceptance of new programs and program and event enhancements by us and our competitors; • other economic factors and other considerations affecting the travel industry; • potential claims related to our reinsurance business; • the potentially volatile nature of the reinsurance business; and • other factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of these and other factors, our operations and financial condition could suffer, which could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. If we are unable to effectively compete against our competitors, our financial condition will suffer. The cruise, marine and travel and events industries are highly competitive. We compete with a variety of other companies that provide similar products and services. As a result of our cruise acquisitions, we operate in the vacation market, and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators that provide other leisure options, including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. We face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to cruise passengers. We believe the barriers to entry within some of the industries in which we operate are relatively low. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do. As a result, there can be no assurance that our present competitors or competitors that elect to enter the marketplace in the future will not exert significant competitive pressures on us. These competitive factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by events adversely affecting the travel industry, including the effects of general economic conditions. A substantial portion of our operations are directly associated with the travel industry. Demand for travel and vacation is dependent on the underlying strength of the economy. As a result, our operations are subject to special 14 Table of Contents risks inherent in doing business in that industry. Adverse changes in the economic climate, such as higher fuel prices, higher interest rates and changes in governmental policies could reduce the discretionary income of our potential cruise passengers or companies scheduling conventions, trade shows or meetings. Consequently, this could negatively affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, and for travel, events or conventions, all of which are discretionary purchases. In addition, the travel industry is highly susceptible to unforeseen events, such as wars, acts of terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, governmental activities and deprivation of contract rights. Demand for our products and services may also be adversely affected by natural occurrences such as hurricanes, earthquakes, epidemics and flooding in regions in which we offer our products and provide our services. Periods of instability or uncertainty surrounding the travel industry may reduce the demand for our programs and services and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in our travel and events business is highly dependent upon unaffiliated travel services suppliers with whom we have limited agreements. In order to provide our services and products, we depend on airlines, hotels and other suppliers of travel and processing services. We have limited agreements with our travel suppliers and vendors that obligate such suppliers or vendors to process or sell services or products through us. We rely to a large extent on scheduled commercial airline services to get our customers to our cruise ships and, therefore, increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service, could undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages. Restricted access to suppliers and vendors of travel services and processing, or a reduction in capacity or changes in pricing or collateral arrangements with travel suppliers or vendors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overcapacity within the cruise vacation industry, a reduction in demand or economic uncertainties could adversely affect our revenues and profitability and impair our asset values. Cruising capacity has grown in recent years, and we expect it to increase further as cruise vacation companies introduce new ships. Demand for cruises has been and is expected to continue to be dependent on economic conditions. Economic changes may reduce demand for cruise vacations and may lead to reduced occupancy and/or price discounting which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and impair our asset values. Our business could be adversely affected by unanticipated casualty losses. Due to the nature of our businesses, we may be subject to liability claims arising out of accidents or disasters causing injury to our customers, including claims for serious personal injury or death. Although we have never experienced a liability loss for which we did not have adequate insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims or that the insurance carrier will be solvent at the time of any covered loss. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at acceptable premium levels in the future. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large uninsured claims, or of one or a series of claims exceeding our insurance, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that our insurance costs will not escalate. Our protection and indemnity insurance is provided by various mutual protection and indemnity associations. As associations, they rely on member premiums, investment reserves and income, and reinsurance to manage liability risks on behalf of their members. Increased investment losses, underwriting losses or reinsurance costs could cause domestic or international marine insurance associations to substantially raise the cost of premiums, resulting not only in higher premium costs, but also higher levels of deductibles. Increases in our premiums or deductible levels could adversely affect our operating costs. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key 15 Table of Contents employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have any long-term employment agreements with our executive officers, other than with our Chairman and CEO. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in our domestic and international cruise business is highly dependent on our third party vessel management company. In conjunction with our acquisition of Windstar Cruises, we engaged the services of V.Ships Leisure (“V.Ships”) for the vessel management of our internationally flagged ships. Beginning in March 2008, V.Ships will also begin to manage our Majestic America Line ships. Management services consist of deck, engine and hotel crew management, procurement and technical and hotel operations. We rely on the expertise of our third party provider and the failure to adequately integrate, manage and monitor the operations of V.Ships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. International political and other world events affecting safety and security could adversely affect the demand for cruises, which could harm our future sales and profitability. Demand for cruises and other vacation options has been, and is expected to continue to be, affected by the public’s attitude towards the safety and security of travel. Events such as the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001 and the threats of additional attacks in the U.S. and elsewhere, concerns of an outbreak of additional hostilities and national government travel advisories, together with the resulting political instability and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling, have had a significant adverse effect on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry and may continue to do so in the future. Decreases in demand could lead to price discounting which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could adversely affect our reputation and harm our future sales and profitability. The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, including those caused by the improper operation of our ships, passenger and crew illnesses such as the spread of contagious diseases, mechanical failures, fires, collisions, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior, weather events, security breaches and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely affect future industry performance and expose us to claims by those that may be harmed. For example, our Empress of the North ran aground in May 2007 during a cruise, requiring us to cancel twelve non-consecutive cruises and end the sailing season early. Our Empress of the North also ran aground in March 2006 during a cruise, requiring us to cancel three cruises. In addition, we experienced an outbreak of Norovirus on our Mississippi Queen® in October 2006, requiring us to cancel three cruises. It is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition due to loss of revenue from cancellations passenger relocation, crew expenses, ship repairs and passenger refunds or other accommodations. Incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, events such as terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities, or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as storms and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently adversely affect our profitability. If we do not complete drydocking on schedule or if ship mechanical faults result in unscheduled drydockings and repairs, we will incur additional expenses and may also lose revenues by canceling planned cruises. When we drydock one of our cruise ships as is required for inspection of the exterior of the hull on a periodic basis, we lose the revenue from that ship’s operations for the period it is out of service. We also incur the additional cost of the drydocking. Also, our cruise ships from time to time experience mechanical problems or extended or extraordinary maintenance. Mechanical faults or extended maintenance may result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs. For example, in November 2007 our Wind Star was placed into a scheduled drydock that required more repairs than originally anticipated, which caused a significant budget 16 Table of Contents overrun. Our Wind Spirit experienced an oil leak due to a broken seal in the controllable pitch propeller in December 2007, which caused us to cancel one sailing. Our Queen of the West experienced an engine failure in September 2006, which caused us to cancel one cruise. These, events together with any related adverse publicity, could adversely affect our financial results. Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our profits by reducing our sales of cruise vacations. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local government regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities. Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our profits by reducing our sales of cruise vacations. The nature of our engineering and construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes, which may reduce our profits and cash available for operations. We engage in construction activities for marina facilities where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. We and/or our subsidiaries have been and may in the future be named as defendants in legal proceedings where parties may make a claim for damages or other remedies with respect to our projects or other matters. These claims generally arise in the normal course of our business. When it is determined that we have liability, we may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of these liabilities may exceed our policy limits. In addition, even where insurance is maintained for such exposures, the policies have deductibles resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to any such claims. Any liability not covered by our insurance, in excess of our insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in a significant loss for us, which claims may reduce our profits and cash available for operations. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. Our ability to conduct and expand our marina construction operations is dependent on access to construction materials and skilled labor. Increased prices or shortages of materials such as cement, aluminum and wood would cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. Labor disputes or increased costs or shortages of skilled labor could also cause increases in costs and delays. Prices and supplies may be further adversely affected by natural disasters and adverse weather conditions. We estimate and forecast costs as part of our business, and attempt to plan for possible cost increases due to changes in prices or availability of materials or labor. However, generally we are unable to pass on unanticipated increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the project at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction work. Significant unexpected increases in costs of materials or labor may adversely affect our results of operations. The demand, timing and funding of marina construction awards and other factors could lead to unpredictable operating results. Our marina construction operations are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with changing demand for marina construction projects, the timing and funding of new projects, the length of time over which construction contracts are to be performed, the ability to meet performance schedules, cost overruns and cancellations or changes in the scope of existing contracts. As a result of these uncertainties, the operating results related to our marine business could be unpredictable and inconsistent from period to period. We may incur costs related to repairing defects in marinas we design and construct, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our marina construction operations are subject to warranty and other claims related to design and construction defects and related issues, including compliance with construction codes. The costs we incur to resolve those 17 Table of Contents warranties and other claims could reduce our profitability, and if we were to experience an unusually high level of claims, or unusually severe claims, our profitability could be adversely affected. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of projects we are able to pursue. As is customary in the marina construction industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in relationship to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. Since 2001, the surety industry has undergone significant changes, with several companies withdrawing completely from the industry or significantly reducing their bonding commitment. In addition, certain reinsurers of surety risk have limited their participation in this market. Therefore, we could be unable to obtain surety bonds when required, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and revenues by limiting the number of projects we are able to pursue. Natural disasters, severe weather conditions and forces in nature beyond our control could adversely affect our marina construction and management operations. Our marina construction and management operations are conducted in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, tsunamis and fires. We also may be affected by unforeseen engineering, environmental, or geological problems. These conditions could delay or increase the cost of construction projects, damage or reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for marinas in affected areas. If our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity and capital resources could be adversely affected. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues or profits. Under our accounting procedures, we measure and recognize our marina construction profits and revenues under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows us to recognize revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract by comparing the amount of the costs incurred to date against the total amount of costs expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated, and these revisions can occur at any time and could be material. Given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Unexpected and adverse changes in the foreign countries in which we operate could result in project disruptions, increased costs and potential losses. Our business is subject to fluctuations in demand and to changing domestic and international economic and political conditions beyond our control. In our marine operations, we currently operate in Australia, Spain, New Zealand, France, United Kingdom, Mexico, Canada, Bahamas, Malaysia, China and Singapore. With the addition of Windstar Cruises, we began offering itineraries with destinations in Costa Rica, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Turkey, Italy, France, British Virgin Islands, Barbados, French West Indies, Grenada and other foreign ports of call. We anticipate that our foreign destinations will change and expand over time. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks including: • abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations; • embargoes; • trade restrictions; • tax treatment; • U.S. government policies relating to foreign operations; and • international hostilities. 18 Table of Contents We also face significant risks due to civil strife, acts of war, terrorism and insurrection. Our level of exposure to these risks varies with respect to each project, depending on the particular stage of each project. For example, our risk exposure with respect to a marina construction project in an early development stage will generally be less than our risk exposure with respect to a project in the middle of construction. To the extent that our international business is affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience project disruptions and losses. Project disruptions and losses could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. Our international operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could increase our U.S. dollar costs or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues. Our international contracts are typically denominated in foreign currencies, which results in our foreign operations facing the additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our profits. We expect to face significant and increasing costs to maintain our ships as they age and may have difficulty replacing our ships when needed, which could adversely affect our result of operations and financial condition. We believe that the costs to maintain our fleet of ships will increase over time. Excluding our Delta Queen® ship, which is 81 years old, the average age of our ships is approximately 16 years. We expect to incur increasing expenses to operate and maintain our ships in good condition as they age. Eventually, our ships will need to be replaced. We may not be able to replace our ships with new ships based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. We may be unable to replace revenues lost when the Delta Queen® ceases operations later this year and may be subject to liability claims if a fire occurs due to our negligence. Since 1968, Congress has granted the Delta Queen® eight consecutive exemptions from the Safety at Sea Act requirement because of fire prevention and safety enhancements made to the ship and the historic status of the Delta Queen®. The statute exempting the Delta Queen® requires us to notify potential passengers that the Delta Queen® does not comply with applicable fire standards and prohibits us from disclaiming liability for loss due to fire caused by our negligence. The current exemption has been extended to November 1, 2008. Our ability to operate the Delta Queen® has been dependent upon retaining our current Congressional exemption and obtaining additional exemptions. In July 2007, we were made aware that the Congressional exemption would not be extended beyond 2008, and announced 2008 as the farewell season for the Delta Queen®. Our cruise revenues may decline if we are unable to replace revenues lost when the Delta Queen® ceases operations. If we experience delays and/or defaults in customer payments, we could suffer liquidity problems or be unable to recover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our marina construction contracts, at times we commit resources to marina projects prior to receiving payments from the customer in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on client projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment. Customer defaults in making payments on a project in which we have devoted significant resources could adversely effect our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by losses associated with our reinsurance operations. We currently reinsure property and casualty risks written by licensed U.S. insurers. The lines of business that are being reinsured include commercial auto liability, commercial physical damage and workers’ compensation. If a loss event occurs that we are required by our agreements to cover, the amount of our cash and cash equivalents will be reduced, and our results of operations and financial condition would suffer. 19 Table of Contents Environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility, tax and maritime and homeland security legislation and other laws and regulations could adversely affect us by restricting our operations increasing our operating costs. As described in Item 1, “Business — Regulation,” we are subject to numerous laws and regulations covering various aspects of our businesses. Compliance or failure to comply with those or future laws and regulations could be costly and could restrict our operations. For example, the U.S., Canada and various state government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies that could adversely affect the cruise vacation industry. Some environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. Current and future environmental laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or to ship discharges, could increase our cost of compliance, subject us to civil and criminal liabilities or otherwise adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, regulations and treaties that govern safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards onboard our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities, which could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. The Federal Maritime Commission requires that operators of ships with 50 or more passenger berths departing from U.S. ports post surety bonds to be used if the operator fails to provide cruise services, or otherwise satisfy certain financial standards. We have secured a $15 million surety bond as security under the Federal Maritime Commission. Our ability to continue to secure such a security instrument in the future may result in undue burden on us and may require that we make additional financial deposits directly with the Federal Maritime Commission in proportion to advance passenger deposits received. The State of Alaska instituted new state taxes and operating regulations that could result in a reduction in demand for Alaska cruises. It is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that we regularly visit may decide to also assess new taxes specifically targeted to the cruise industry, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises and ultimately decrease our net revenue yields. Since January 31, 2008, U.S. citizens have been required to carry a passport or, when available, a PASS card, for travel by land or sea to or from certain countries and areas that previously were exempt from passport requirements, such as the Caribbean, Canada and Mexico. Since many cruise customers visiting these destinations may not currently have passports or may not obtain a PASS card when available, it is likely that this will have some negative effect on our bookings and future net revenue yields. A failure to operate in accordance with the Coast Guard’s maritime security regulations or an approved security plan may result in the imposition of a fine or control and compliance measures, including the suspension or revocation of the security plan, thereby making the ship or facility ineligible to operate. We are also required to audit these security plans on an annual basis and, if necessary, submit amendments to the Coast Guard for their review and approval. Failure to timely submit the necessary amendments may lead to the imposition of the fines and control and compliance measures mentioned above. DHS may adopt additional security-related regulations, including new requirements for screening of passengers and our reimbursement to the agency for the cost of security services. These new security-related regulations could adversely affect our ability to efficiently process passengers or could increase our operating costs. If we are unable to maintain liquor licenses in various states for our ships, we may be required to restrict the sale of alcoholic beverages on all or portions of our cruises. In connection with liquor license applications or otherwise, we may be required to become qualified to do business in, or to pay or remit various types of taxes or fees to, certain states or political subdivisions. 20 Table of Contents In addition, we may be subject to fines or other penalties for failure to comply with laws and regulations of one or more states requiring licensing, qualification or other action. Increases in taxes and regulatory compliance costs could adversely affect our results of operations because we may not be able to recover these increased costs through price increases of our cruise vacations. U.S. maritime laws restrict foreign ownership of our stock, and the repeal, suspension or substantial amendment of these laws could increase competition on inland waterways and adversely affect our business. U.S. maritime laws require that, to be eligible to operate a ship transporting non-proprietary cargo on U.S. inland waterways, the company that owns the ship must be controlled and 75%-owned by U.S. citizens at each tier of its ownership. Such laws therefore restrict, directly or indirectly, foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the ships that we operate on the inland waterways. If we at any point cease to be 75%-owned by U.S. citizens, we may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our inland waterways operations. If these laws were to be repealed, suspended or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs were to enter the inland waterways market, our business likely would be adversely affected. In addition, our advantages as a U.S. citizen operator of U.S. ships could be eroded over time, as efforts and attempts by foreign investors to circumvent certain aspects of U.S. maritime laws continue. Our employees are covered by federal maritime laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Federal maritime laws operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to many of our cruise segment employees and permit these employees and their representatives to pursue in federal court actions against employers for job-related injuries. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these employees, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees than is customary in the individual states. We may be subject to significantly higher U.S. income taxes if we do not qualify for exemption from tax or for deferral of tax under U.S. tax laws in respect of Windstar Cruises income. Changes under the Code may adversely affect the U.S. federal income taxation of our U.S. source shipping income derived from our Windstar Cruises. In addition, changes in other countries’ or states’ income or other tax laws, regulations or treaties in respect of Windstar Cruises could also adversely affect our net income. We believe that substantially all of the U.S. source shipping income of our Windstar Cruises qualifies for exemption under Section 883 of the Code. We further believe that substantially all of the income derived by Windstar Cruises qualifies for deferral from tax, until repatriated by dividend or otherwise, back to the United States under the CFC regime of the Code. However, if as a result of changes in the law, we do not qualify for exemption from tax under Section 883, or qualify for deferral of tax under the CFC regime, in respect of our Windstar Cruises income, we would have significantly higher U.S. income tax expenses. In addition, changes in the income or other tax laws affecting our cruise businesses elsewhere could result in higher income and/or other taxes, such as value added taxes, being levied on our cruise operations, thus resulting in lower net income. For additional information see “Taxation” under Part I, Item 1. Business. Additional Risks Related to Our Stock We may not pay dividends in the future, which could adversely affect our share price. On September 2, 2003, our board of directors adopted a dividend policy paying stockholders $0.40 per share annually, distributable at $0.10 per share on a quarterly basis. Dividend payments, however, are not guaranteed and our board of directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to pay dividends. In the future we may not be able to pay or maintain dividends. Subsequent to the dividend declared in May 2007, our board of directors has not approved any additional dividends. 21 Table of Contents The payment of cash dividends, if any, depends on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Moreover, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. If we are unable to fulfill our dividend policy or we do not pay dividends at levels anticipated by investors, the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions may delay or prevent the acquisition of us, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management. Provisions in our charter documents may make a change of control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. Having a staggered board of directors makes it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. Additionally, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us in certain circumstances. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to specified exceptions, a Delaware corporation may not engage in business combinations with any entity that acquires enough shares of our common stock without the consent of our board of directors to be considered an ''interested stockholder’’ under Delaware law for a three-year period following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Neither our certificate of incorporation or bylaws contains an election, as permitted by Delaware law, to be exempt from the requirements of Section 203. U.S. ownership requirements and transferability limitations may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. One of the requirements for having U.S.-flagged ships operating in U.S. domestic trade is that 75% of our stockholders must be U.S. citizens and that non-U.S. citizens cannot exercise control over us. We have added restrictions to our certificate of incorporation limiting the transferability of our common stock or control to non-U.S. citizens to preserve our U.S.-flagged status. We believe that such limitations may have the effect of decreasing the liquidity of our common stock, thereby making it more difficult for investors to dispose of their shares in an orderly manner. We may also add legends to our stock certificates to indicate the citizenship of our stockholders to facilitate our ability to monitor and control our U.S. citizenship. Such provisions and the level of ownership by insiders and our largest stockholders, we believe, may deter a change in control and limit non-U.S. citizens’, including corporations’ and individuals’, purchases of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents Future sales of shares of our common stock underlying derivative securities could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of March 10, 2008, we had outstanding 11,141,067 shares of common stock and options and convertible notes that were exercisable for or convertible into an aggregate of 2,933,059 shares of common stock. A substantial number of these shares are eligible or registered for public resale. Sales of these underlying shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 