Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the specific risk factors set forth below and other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. You should note that the risks described below are not the only risks that we face. The risks listed below are only those risks relating to our operations that we consider to be material. There may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or that we are not currently aware of, that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose the money they paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry The adverse impact of the worldwide economic downturn and the effects of general economic conditions on the demand for cruises could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. The current worldwide economic downturn has had an adverse effect on vacationers’ discretionary spending and consumer confidence, which has resulted in reduced cruise booking, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for our competitors. We cannot predict the extent or duration of this downturn or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. However, if the downturn continues for an extended period of time or worsens, we could experience a prolonged period of reduced bookings, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. This would adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including the impairment of the value of our ships and intangible assets. Further, adverse changes in the economic climate, such as higher fuel prices, higher interest rates and changes in governmental policies could reduce the discretionary income of our potential cruise passengers or companies scheduling incentive charters. Consequently, this could negatively affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, and for corporate incentive travel, all of which are discretionary purchases. In addition, the travel industry is highly susceptible to unforeseen events, such as wars, acts of terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, governmental activities, deprivation of contract rights and adverse publicity regarding the outbreak of infections on 8 cruises. Demand for our products and services may also be adversely affected by natural occurrences such as hurricanes, earthquakes, epidemics and flooding in regions in which we offer our products and provide our services. Periods of instability or uncertainty surrounding the travel industry may reduce the demand for our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our cash flows and business. We currently have outstanding $18 million in Senior Secured Notes maturing in January 2012 and $31 million in Convertible Notes maturing in April 2027. The Convertible Notes contain a provision whereby the note holders have the option to require us to repurchase the Convertible Notes at 100% of their principal amount in April 2012 or earlier if certain events occur (including a change in control or a delisting of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market, unless our common stock becomes listed or traded on another securities exchange or electronic trading platform). In addition we have a $15 million working capital facility that includes a $10 million term loan and a $5 million revolving line of credit that matures in January 2012. This outstanding indebtedness could: • require us to dedicate the majority of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other growth purposes; • increase our vulnerability to, and limit flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; • adversely affect our credit rating; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering of securities or asset sale to purposes other than the repayment of debt. Further, while the Senior Secured Notes provide for payment-in-kind interest, if our operating cash flow decreases, we may be unable to service our debt, including the Convertible Notes and Senior Secured Notes, borrowings under the Credit Facility, and any other debt we may incur, without refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling our assets or operations, or raising additional debt or equity capital. If these alternatives are not available in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms or are not permitted under our existing agreements, we may default on our debt obligations. Such a default could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debts or have other serious adverse consequences for holders of our debt securities and our common stock. Also, substantially all of our long-term indebtedness is scheduled to mature or may need to be repaid during 2012. The borrowings under our new Working Capital Credit Facility will mature on January 2, 2012, and our 10% Senior Secured Notes will mature on January 15, 2012. In addition, the holders of our 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes have the right to require us to repurchase up to 100% of the outstanding Convertible Notes, in cash, at 100% of their principal amount (together with accrued interest), on April 15, 2012. We do not expect that our cash flows from operations will generate sufficient funds to enable us to repay or repurchase this indebtedness when we are required to do so in 2012. Accordingly, our ability to satisfy these obligations will depend upon our ability to refinance this indebtedness or to obtain additional funds through borrowings, sales of debt or equity securities, asset sales or other transactions. The Senior Secured Notes and the Credit Facility contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to operate our business and creates a risk of default. The indenture for the Senior Secured Notes and the Credit Agreement for our Credit Facility contain various restrictive covenants (including a covenant in the Indenture requiring us to maintain a minimum cash balance of $2 million after entering into the working capital facility in March 2010). Our Credit Facility also requires us to comply with certain financial covenants measured by our financial results on an ongoing basis. Any of our future debt agreements may also contain restrictive covenants. These covenants may limit our ability to operate our business and create a risk of default. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Secured Notes or under the Credit Agreement, and could cause a cross-default 9 under the Convertible Notes and/or our other indebtedness, permitting the holders of any such indebtedness to accelerate such indebtedness. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. The Company may receive deemed dividends from its foreign subsidiaries that could result in taxable income in future years. It is possible that the Company will receive one or more deemed dividends in future years as a result of the guarantees by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries of the Company’s obligations under the Senior Secured Notes. Such deemed dividends would constitute taxable income for the Company and could result in a U.S. federal income tax liability for the Company. Our financial performance is subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and could result in securities class action in litigation. Our business is seasonal. We recognize cruise-related revenues at the completion of the cruise. As a result, a majority of our operating results will be recognized in the second and third quarters of each fiscal year, which coincides with the cruising season. Our future annual results could be adversely affected if our revenue were to be substantially below seasonal norms during any quarter, particularly the third quarter of any fiscal year. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: • our ability to effectively and efficiently operate our cruise operations; • customer cancellation rates; • competitive conditions in the industry in which we operate; • marketing expenses; • extreme weather conditions; • the impact of new laws and regulations affecting our business; • negative incidents involving cruise ships, including those involving the health and safety of passengers; • cruise ship maintenance problems; • reduced consumer demand for vacations and cruise vacations; • changes in fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs; • changes in relationships with certain travel providers; • changes in vacation industry capacity; • other economic factors and other considerations affecting the travel industry; and • other factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of these and other factors, our operations and financial condition could suffer, which could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies which experienced volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 10 If we are unable to effectively compete against our competitors, our financial condition will suffer. The cruise industry is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of other companies that provide similar products and services. We operate in the vacation market, and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. We therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators that provide other leisure options, including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. We face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to cruise passengers. We believe the barriers to enter the industry in which we operate are relatively low. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do. As a result, there can be no assurance that our present competitors or competitors that elect to enter the marketplace in the future will not exert significant competitive pressures on us. These competitive factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overcapacity within the cruise vacation industry, a reduction in demand or economic uncertainties could adversely affect our revenues and profitability and impair our asset values. Cruising capacity has grown in recent years, and we expect it to increase further as cruise vacation companies introduce new ships. Demand for cruises has been and is expected to continue to be dependent on economic conditions. Economic changes may reduce demand for cruise vacations and may lead to reduced occupancy and/or price discounting which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and impair our asset values. Our business could be adversely affected by unanticipated casualty losses. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to liability claims arising out of accidents or disasters causing injury to our customers, including claims for serious personal injury or death. Although we have never experienced a liability loss for which we did not have adequate insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims or that the insurance carrier will be solvent at the time of any covered loss. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at acceptable premium levels in the future. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large uninsured claims, or of one or a series of claims exceeding our insurance, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that our insurance costs will not escalate. Our protection and indemnity insurance is provided by various mutual protection and indemnity associations. As associations, they rely on member premiums, investment reserves and income, and reinsurance to manage liability risks on behalf of their members. Increased investment losses, underwriting losses or reinsurance costs could cause domestic or international marine insurance associations to substantially raise the cost of premiums, resulting not only in higher premium costs, but also higher levels of deductibles. Increases in our premiums or deductible levels could adversely affect our operating costs. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary managerial, operational, marketing and customer service personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Our chief executive officer, Arthur Rodney, became our interim chief executive officer in 2009. Mr. Rodney and the other members of our senior management are all at-will employees who may elect to leave the Company at any time. International political and other world events affecting safety and security could adversely affect the demand for cruises, which could harm our future sales and profitability. Demand for cruises and other vacation options has been, and is expected to continue to be, affected by the public’s attitude towards the safety and security of travel. Events, such as terrorist attacks in the U.S. and the threats of additional attacks in the U.S. and elsewhere, concerns of an outbreak of additional hostilities and national government travel advisories, together with the resulting political instability and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling, have had a significant adverse effect on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry and may continue to do so in the future. Decreases in demand could lead to price discounting which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. Incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could adversely affect our reputation and harm our future sales and profitability. The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, including those caused by the improper operation of our ships, passenger and crew illnesses such as the spread of contagious diseases, mechanical failures, fires, collisions, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior, weather events, security breaches and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely affect future industry performance and expose us to claims by those that may be harmed. It is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition due to loss of revenue from cancellations passenger relocation, crew expenses, ship repairs and passenger refunds or other accommodations. Incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, events such as terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities, or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as storms and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently adversely affect our profitability. If we do not complete drydocking on schedule or if ship mechanical faults result in unscheduled drydockings and repairs, we will incur additional expenses and may also lose revenues by canceling planned cruises. When we drydock one of our cruise ships as is required for inspection of the exterior of the hull on a periodic basis, we lose the revenue from that ship’s operations for the period it is out of service. We also incur the additional cost of the drydocking. Also, our cruise ships from time to time experience mechanical problems or extended or extraordinary maintenance. Mechanical faults or extended maintenance may result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs. For example, in November 2007 our Wind Star was placed into a scheduled drydock that required more repairs than originally anticipated. Our Wind Spirit experienced an oil leak due to a broken seal in the controllable pitch propeller in December 2007, which caused us to cancel one sailing. These types of events together with any related adverse publicity, could adversely affect our financial results. Unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our profits by reducing our sales of cruise vacations. We believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local government regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities. Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing our sales of cruise vacations. 12 Unexpected and adverse changes in the foreign countries in which we operate could result in business disruptions, increased costs and potential losses. We offer cruise itineraries with destinations in Costa Rica, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Turkey, Italy, France, British Virgin Islands, Barbados, French West Indies, Grenada and other foreign ports of call. We anticipate that our foreign destinations will change and expand over time. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks including: • abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations; • embargoes; • trade restrictions; • tax treatment; • U.S. government policies relating to foreign operations; and • international hostilities. We also face significant risks due to civil strife, acts of war, terrorism and insurrection. To the extent that our international business is affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience business disruptions which could significantly reduce our revenues and results of operations. Our international operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could increase our U.S. dollar costs. Local purchases from international ports of call and other suppliers are typically denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. This results in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for products and services. Any increased costs as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We expect to face significant and increasing costs to maintain our ships as they age and may have difficulty replacing our ships when needed, which could adversely affect our result of operations and financial condition. We believe that the costs to maintain our fleet of ships will increase over time. The average age of our ships is approximately 20 years. We expect to incur increasing expenses to operate and maintain our ships in good condition as they age. Eventually, our ships will need to be replaced. We may not be able to replace our ships with new ships based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. We may be required to record impairments on our long-lived and intangible assets which could have an adverse material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. During 2009 we recorded total impairment charges of $51.3 million related to our vessels and the Windstar Cruises trade name. We continuously assess the value of our long lived and intangible assets. There can be no assurances that there will not be an additional impairment with respect to the value of such assets in the future. If these assets become further impaired, the amount of such impairment will be expensed in the period in which such impairment is recognized. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility, tax and maritime legislation and other laws and regulations could adversely affect us by restricting our operations and increasing our operating costs. As described in Item 1, “Business — Regulation”, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations covering various aspects of our businesses. Compliance with those or future laws and regulations could be costly and could restrict our operations, and failure to comply with any such laws could result in penalties or otherwise adversely affect us. Regulations and treaties that govern safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards onboard our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities, which could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. A failure to operate in accordance with international maritime security regulations or an approved security plan may result in the imposition of a fine or control and compliance measures, including the suspension or revocation of the security plan, thereby making the ship or facility ineligible to operate. We are also required to audit these security plans on an annual basis and, if necessary, submit amendments to our security plans for their review and approval. Failure to timely submit the necessary amendments may lead to the imposition of the fines and control and compliance measures mentioned above. In addition, many aspects of our operations are subject to environmental regulations. Various country and local international governments or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies that could adversely affect the cruise vacation industry, including new restrictions on the type of fuel that can be utilized in certain international waters. Current and future environmental laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or to ship discharges, could increase the cost of compliance or otherwise adversely affect the value of our vessels, resulting in adverse affects on our business and financial condition. We continue to evaluate ongoing environmental regulation developments at the international, federal and state levels and assess the potential associated impacts on our business and operations. We may be subject to significantly higher U.S. income taxes if we do not qualify for exemption from tax or for deferral of tax under U.S. tax laws in respect to our cruise income. Changes under the Code may adversely affect the U.S. federal income taxation of our U.S. source shipping income derived from Windstar Cruises. In addition, changes in other countries’ or states’ income or other tax laws, regulations or treaties could also adversely affect our net income. We believe that substantially all of the U.S. source shipping income of Windstar Cruises qualifies for exemption under Section 883 of the Code. We further believe that substantially all of the income derived from international operations qualifies for deferral from tax, until repatriated by dividend or otherwise, back to the United States under the “controlled foreign corporation” (“CFC”) regime of the Code. However, if as a result of changes in the law, we do not qualify for exemption from tax under Section 883, or qualify for deferral of tax under the CFC regime, in respect to our cruise income, we would have significantly higher U.S. income tax expenses. In addition, changes in the income or other tax laws affecting our industry elsewhere in the world could result in higher income and/or other taxes, such as value added taxes, being levied on our cruise operations, thus resulting in lower net income. For additional information see “Taxation” under Part I, Item 1. Business. 14 Additional Risks Related to Our Stock If we are unable to meet listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. On November 12, 2009, the Company received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter indicating that the Company no longer meets the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market as set forth in Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1). The letter gave the Company notice that the bid price of its common shares has closed under $1.00 for the last 30 consecutive business days. The notification did not result in the immediate delisting of the Company’s common shares from the NASDAQ Global Market. The Company has until May 11, 2010 to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of the Company’s common shares must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for at least ten consecutive business days. The Company is considering actions that it may take in response to this notification in order to regain compliance with continued listing requirements. For example, in order to regain compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid price requirement, the Company may implement a 1-for-3 or a 1-for-4 reverse stock split as approved by its stockholders at the Company’s 2009 annual meeting. The Company may also seek stockholder approval of a reverse stock split at a different ratio than the 1-for-3 of 1-for-4 ratios approved at the Company’s 2010 annual meeting. Alternatively, the Company may apply to transfer the listing of its common shares to the NASDAQ Capital Market if it satisfies all criteria for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, other than compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If such application to the NASDAQ Capital Market is approved, then the Company may be eligible for an additional 180 day period to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If the Company does not regain compliance by May 11, 2010, Nasdaq will provide written notification to the Company that the Company’s common shares will be delisted. At that time, the Company may appeal Nasdaq’s delisting determination to a Nasdaq Hearings Panel. If our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as Pink Quote (formerly known as the Pink Sheets) or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. In addition, if our common stock ceases to be listed on the NASDAQ Global Market and is not listed on an established national securities exchange or automated over-the-counter trading market in the United States, the holders of our Convertible Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase such notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Provisions of the Senior Secured Notes and the Credit Facility could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. The provisions of the Convertible Notes, the Senior Secured Notes and the Credit Facility regarding redemption, repurchase or mandatory prepayment could make it more expensive or more difficult for a third party to acquire us due to the requirements to repurchase or repay such indebtedness in cash at par value upon a change of control or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets (or our entry into an agreement for such a sale). Certain significant stockholders have designated directors who are members of our Board of Directors. As a result, these stockholders may exercise significant influence over the Company and their interests may conflict with the interests of other stockholders. As a result of the Exchange Offer, Whippoorwill Associates, Inc. (as agent for its discretionary accounts), and Polygon Investments Inc. which are unaffiliated with each other, are significant stockholders of the Company and each have a director designee on our Board of Directors, which consists of five total members. In connection with the Exchange Offer, another significant stockholder, Highbridge Investments, Inc., previously designated a director who subsequently resigned from our Board. Whippoorwill, Polygon and Highbridge are also significant creditors of the Company through their holdings of Senior Secured Notes and, in the case of Whippoorwill, its status as lender under the Credit Facility. As a result, such stockholders may exercise significant influence over corporate policy and decisions with respect to fundamental corporate transactions and, due to, among other things, their position as both equity holders and creditors of the Company, their interests may conflict with the interests of other stockholders. For example, the directors designated by Whippoorwill or Polygon may exert influence over significant corporate transactions such as asset sales, debt restructuring transactions or issuances of additional capital stock. In addition, in matters requiring or otherwise involving a vote of stockholders, each of such holders will have the ability to vote a significant percentage of our Common Stock for or against any proposal. 15 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions may delay or prevent the acquisition of us, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. Having a staggered board of directors makes it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. U.S. ownership requirements and transferability limitations may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. We have added restrictions to our certificate of incorporation limiting the transferability of our common stock or control to non-U.S. citizens. We believe that such limitations may have the effect of decreasing the liquidity of our common stock, thereby making it more difficult for investors to dispose of their shares in an orderly manner. We may also add legends to our stock certificates to indicate the citizenship of our stockholders to facilitate our ability to monitor and control our U.S. citizenship. Such provisions and the level of ownership by insiders and our largest stockholders, we believe, may deter a change in control and limit non-U.S. citizens’, including corporations’ and individuals’, purchases of our common stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of March 1, 2010, we had outstanding 26,517,557 shares of common stock. A substantial number of these shares are eligible or registered for public resale. Sales of these underlying shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility and may continue to experience significant volatility in the future. This volatility may impair our ability to finance strategic transactions with our stock and otherwise harm our business The closing price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $1.49 per share to a low of $0.26 per share during the year ended December 31, 2009. On March 25, 2010 our closing stock price was $0.52. Our stock price is may continue to experience significant volatility in the future. The significant declines in our stock price may interfere with our ability to raise additional funds through equity financing or to finance strategic transactions with our stock. We have historically used equity incentive compensation as part of our overall compensation arrangements. The effectiveness of equity incentive compensation in retaining key employees may be adversely impacted by volatility in our stock price. In addition, there may be increased risk of securities litigation following periods of fluctuations or decline in our stock price. These and other consequences of volatility in our stock price could have the effect of diverting management’s attention and could materially harm our business, and could be exacerbated by the current worldwide financial crisis. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 