Risk Factors We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on our website, and other documents. The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe harbor for forward-looking statements on which we rely in making such disclosures. In connection with this “safe harbor”, we are hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements: We are dependent on a few major customers and have no long-term contracts with them. Our sales would substantially decrease and we would suffer decreases in net income or losses if we lose any of our major customers, if they substantially reduce their orders or if they are unable to pay us. These risks have become particularly acute in the current adverse economic environment. Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been to a small number of customers. Customers that individually accounted for ten percent or more of our net sales during the years ended March 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, accounted for 51.5%, 53.3%, and 41.3%, respectively, of our total net sales during those years. Our two largest customers during the year ended March 31, 2009 accounting for ten percent or more were N&J Company Limited and Digidesign Inc. Each of these customers individually accounted for 10% or more of our total net sales during the year ended March 31, 2009. Our sales are based on purchase orders and we have no long-term contracts with any of our customers and the percentage of sales to any of our customers may fluctuate from time to time. Current economic conditions have had a negative impact on our results of operations during fiscal 2009 and are expected to continue to have a negative impact on our operations over the next several quarters and possibly beyond. We cannot assure you that present or future customers will not cease using us as the source of the injection-molded plastic parts and components we manufacture, for electronic manufacturing services of electrical products and subassemblies or for metallic molds and accessories or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of products and services ordered from us. Substantial decreases in sales from any of our larger customers, or the loss of any major customers, would adversely impact our sales and financial performance. For example, two of our customers, which accounted for more than ten percent of our total net sales during fiscal 2008, each reduced the volume of their orders during the year ended March 31, 2009 to below ten percent of our total sales. In addition, another major customer, which accounted for 17.0% of our total net sales during fiscal 2008, reduced the volume of its orders during the year ended March 31, 2009 to 12.7% of our total sales. These reductions in sales to our major customers contributed to the decrease in our total sales during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. The global economic weakness has adversely affected our earnings, liquidity and financial condition and, until global economic conditions improve, is expected to continue to do so. Global financial and credit markets have been, and continue to be, extremely unstable and unpredictable. Worldwide economic conditions have been weak and may be further deteriorating. The instability of the markets and weakness of the global economy has adversely affected, and could continue to effect adversely, the demand for our customers’ products, the amount, timing and stability of their orders to us, the financial strength of our customers and suppliers, their ability or willingness to do business with us, our willingness to do business with them, and/or our suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us and/or the ability of our customers, our suppliers or us to obtain credit. These factors have and could continue to affect our operations, earnings and financial condition adversely. This instability also could affect the prices at which we could make any such sales, which also could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. These conditions could also negatively affect our ability to secure funds or raise capital, if needed. Our exposure to financially troubled customers or suppliers may adversely affect our financial results. We manufacture and sell injection-molded plastic parts and components and provide manufacturing services for electrical products and subassemblies to companies and industries that have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulty, particularly in light of conditions in the credit markets and the overall worldwide economy. Our suppliers may also experience financial difficulty in this environment. If our customers experience financial difficulty, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers, or demand for our products and services from these customers could decline. Additionally, if our suppliers experience 5 Table of Contents financial difficulty we could have difficulty sourcing supply necessary to fulfill production requirements and meet scheduled shipments. The current global financial crisis is continuing to adversely affect our customers’ and suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the products or services provided by us on a timely basis, or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Such adverse effects could include one or more of the following: a provision for doubtful accounts, a charge for inventory write-offs, a reduction in revenue, and increases in working capital requirements due to increases in days in inventory and increases in days in accounts receivable. For the year ended March 31, 2009, we recognized approximately $3.0 million in charges for provisions of accounts receivable, the write-down of inventory and recognition of related obligations for certain financially distressed customers. Our gross margins fluctuate from year to year and may be adversely affected by a number of factors. The following chart shows, for the years indicated, our gross margins from our two principal operating segments and for our company as a whole: Gross Margins Percentage Fluctuations in our margins have been affected, often adversely, and may continue to be affected, by numerous factors, including: • increasing competition in our market segments, which has forced us to maintain or reduce unit prices or attempt to pass on our costs of materials and components on to customers; • costs of labor, particularly in recent years, which such costs have increased substantially as consequence of increasing governmental regulation directed at labor practices and policies; • continuing appreciation of the RMB, in which we pay our labor and manufacturing costs, against the U.S. dollar, in which we present our financial statements; • our cost of raw materials, especially our cost of plastic resins; • changes in the prices or the availability of components needed to manufacture our electronic products; • changes in our customer mix or the mix of higher and lower margin products, or a combination of both in any year; • increases in value-added taxes as result of changes in the value-added tax policy of the Chinese government for various categories of export products; and • increased costs of conforming our products to consumer and product safety laws and regulations of the various countries in which our products are sold. 6 Table of Contents We expect gross margins generally and for specific products to continue to fluctuate from year to year. As a result of the confluence of above-factors, as well as the overall decline in our sales caused by the global recession, our gross margins declined substantially in the year ended March 31, 2009 from levels during fiscal 2008. Our gross margins may continue to decline. If we cannot stem the decline in our gross margins, our operating results would suffer, dividend payments to shareholders may be decreased or eliminated, our financial position may be harmed and our stock price may fall. If OEMs stop or reduce their manufacturing outsourcing, our business could suffer. Our revenues depend on outsourcing by OEMs to us and to other contract manufactures for which we manufacture end-products or parts and components. Current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our capabilities against other providers as well as against the merits of manufacturing products themselves. Our business would be adversely affected if OEMs decide to perform these functions internally. Similarly, we depend on new outsourcing opportunities to mitigate against lost revenues arising from the decline in demand for our customers’ products as a consequence of the current global economic slowdown, and our business would be adversely affected if we are not successful in gaining additional business from these opportunities or if OEMs do not outsource additional manufacturing business. Our industry is extremely competitive, with aggressive pricing dynamics, and; if we are not able to continue to provide competitive products and services, we may lose business. We compete with a number of different companies in producing of injection-molded plastic parts and components, electrical products and subassemblies and metallic molds and accessories. For example, we compete with Asian-based suppliers of injection-molded plastic parts and components, major global electronic manufacturing services, or EMS, providers, other smaller EMS companies that have a regional or product-specific focus, and original design manufacturers with respect to some of the services that we provide. We also compete with our current and prospective customers, who evaluate our capabilities in light of their own capabilities and cost structures. Our market segments are extremely competitive, many of our competitors have achieved substantial market share and many have lower cost structures and greater manufacturing, financial or other resources than we do. We face particular competition from Asian-based competitors, including Taiwanese EMS providers which compete in our end markets. If we are unable to provide comparable manufacturing services and improved products at lower cost than the other companies in our market, our net sales could decline. The current global economic crisis may also increase the competitive environment in our market segments which could also impact our operating results. In addition, the EMS industry is currently experiencing excess manufacturing capacity and has seen increased competition. These factors have exerted and will continue to exert additional pressures on pricing for injection-molded plastic parts and components and for our electronic manufacturing services, thereby increasing the competitive pressures in our market segments generally. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and the competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on us. We have no long-term contracts to obtain plastic resins and our profit margins and net income could suffer from an increase in resin prices. The primary materials used by us in the manufacture of our plastic injection molded products are various plastic resins. The following table shows our cost of plastic resins as a percentage of our cost of plastic products sold and as a percentage of our total costs of goods sold for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009: Year ended March 31, 2009 Average cost of ABS as a percentage of the total cost of: 2007 2008 2009 Plastic products sold 52 % 46 % 45 % Goods sold 20 % 17 % 25 % We have no long-term contracts with our resin suppliers. Accordingly, our financial performance is dependent to a significant extent on resin markets and the ability to pass through price increases to our customers. The capacity, supply and demand for plastic resins and the petrochemical intermediates from which they are produced are subject to cyclical price fluctuations, including those arising from supply shortages. Consequently, resin prices may fluctuate as a result of changes in natural gas and crude oil prices and the capacity, supply and demand for resin and petrochemical intermediates from which they are produced. We have found that increases in resin prices are difficult to pass on to our customers. In the past increases in resin prices have increased our costs of 7 Table of Contents goods sold and adversely affected our profit margins. A significant increase in resin prices in the future could likewise adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations. We have no written agreements with suppliers to obtain components and our profit margins and net income could suffer from an increase in component prices and our results of operations could suffer from shortages of required electronic components. We have no written agreements with our component suppliers and for certain customers, we are responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing their products. This could result in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins. Accordingly, our financial performance could be materially or adversely affected by any increase in component prices. From time to time, we have experienced shortages of some of the electronic components that we need and use in our electronics manufacturing market segment. These shortages can result from strong demand for those components or from problems experienced by suppliers. These unanticipated component shortages could result in curtailed production or delays in production, which may prevent us from making scheduled shipments to customers. Our inability to make scheduled shipments could cause us to experience a reduction in sales, increase in inventory levels and costs, and could adversely affect relationships with existing and prospective customers. Component shortages may also increase our cost of goods sold because we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply and redesign or reconfigure products to accommodate substitute components. As a result, component shortages could adversely affect our operating results. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to incorporate changes in component costs into the selling prices for our products. The Chinese government could change its policies toward or even nationalize private enterprise, which could result in the total loss of our investment in that country. Our manufacturing facilities are located in China. As a result, our operations and assets are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties associated with doing business in China. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws, regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion or imports and sources of supply could materially and adversely affect us. The nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the Chinese government could result in the total loss of our investment in that country. There may be a lack of remedies and impartiality under the Chinese legal system that prevents us from enforcing the agreements under which we operate our factories. We do not own the land on which our factories in China are located. We occupy our manufacturing facilities under land use agreements or under tenancy agreements with the local Chinese government. These agreements may be difficult to enforce in China, which could force us to accept terms that may not be as favorable as those provided in our agreements. Unlike the U.S., China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have little precedential value. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. These matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. If our business licenses in China were not renewed, we would be required to move our operations out of China, which would impair our profitability, competitiveness and market position and jeopardize our ability to continue operations. Our activities in China require business licenses, the scope of which is limited to our present activities, and require review and approval of our activities by various national and local agencies of Chinese government. The Chinese government may not continue to approve our activities, grant or renew our licenses or grant or renew licenses to expand our existing activities. Our inability to obtain needed approvals or licenses could prevent us from continuing to conduct operations in China. If for any reason we were required to move our manufacturing operations 8 Table of Contents outside of China, our profitability would be substantially impaired, our competitiveness and market position would be materially jeopardized and we may not be able to continue operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover loss related to major accidents or acts of God. Firefighting and disaster relief or assistance in China are primitive by Western standards. At March 31, 2009, we maintained fire, casualty and theft insurance aggregating approximately $145,509,000 covering certain of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment and factory buildings in China. The proceeds of this insurance may not be sufficient to cover material damage to, or the loss of, any of our factories due to fire, severe weather, flood, act of God in the future, such as the recent earthquake that has devastated areas in Sichuan province in China, the epicenter of which is about 800 to 900 miles from Dongguan, China, or other cause. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. We may be faced with product liability claims and have no product liability insurance. Despite quality assurance measures, there remains a risk that defects may occur in our products. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects. They could, moreover, impair the market’s acceptance of our products. At March 31, 2009, we did not maintain any product liability insurance. Although we have not experienced any product quality claims from our major customers, if future claims do arise, costs to defend, adverse judgments or amounts we may be forced to pay in settlement would increase our expenses. Damages to our reputation resulting from such claim(s) could cause our customers to use other vendors which would hurt our revenues. Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in the PRC to us is subject to restrictions under PRC law. The new PRC tax law could force us to reduce the amount of dividends we have historically paid to our shareholders or possibly eliminate them or we may decide not pay dividends in the future. Under PRC law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to our subsidiaries in the PRC refers to after-tax profits as determined in accordance with accounting principles and financial regulations applicable to PRC enterprises (“China GAAP”) less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that it is required to make. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. The calculation of distributable profits under China GAAP differs in many respects from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. As a result, our subsidiaries in PRC may not be able to pay any dividend in a given year as determined under U.S. GAAP. The China’s tax authorities may require changes in determining income of the Company that would limit its ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. PRC law requires companies, including our PRC subsidiaries, to reserve about 11% of their profits for future development and staff welfare, which amounts are not distributable as dividends. These rules and possible changes to them could restrict our PRC subsidiaries from repatriating funds ultimately to us and our stockholders as dividends. Prior to the new unified enterprise income tax (“EIT”) law which became effective in China on January 1, 2008, PRC-organized companies were exempt from withholding taxes with respect to earnings distributions, or dividends, paid to shareholders of PRC companies outside the PRC, such as was the case when our PRC subsidiaries distributed portions of their earnings to our offshore subsidiaries. However, under the new EIT Law, dividends payable to foreign investors which are derived from sources within the PRC are subject to income tax at the rate of 10% by way of withholding unless the foreign investors are companies incorporated in countries which have a tax treaty agreement with PRC and rate agreed by both parties will be applied. As a result of this new PRC withholding tax, amounts available to us in earnings distributions from our PRC enterprises have been reduced. Since we derive most of our profits from our subsidiaries in the PRC, the reduction in amounts available for distribution from our PRC enterprises could, depending on the income generated by our PRC subsidiaries, force us to reduce, or possibly eliminate, the dividends we have paid to our shareholders historically. For this reason, or other factors, we may decide not to declare dividends in the future. If we do pay dividends, we will determine the amounts when they are declared and even if we do declare dividends in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. Under the new EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC tax purposes, which may subject us to PRC enterprise income tax for any dividends we receive from our Chinese subsidiaries and to PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders. Under the PRC’s new EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China is considered a “resident enterprise” and is subject to the 25% enterprise income tax 9 Table of Contents rate on its worldwide income. The new EIT Law and its implementing rules are relatively new, and currently, no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine the tax residency of enterprises established outside of China. All of our manufacturing operations are conducted and managed in the PRC. Our corporate structure, illustrating our incorporation in British Virgin Islands and our ownership of companies inside and outside of China, is set forth on page 17 of this Report. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our holding company structure utilizing companies outside of China is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, we may be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income. The “resident enterprise” classification also could subject us to a 10% withholding tax on any dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders if the relevant PRC authorities determine that such income is PRC-sourced income. In addition to the uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the new “resident enterprise” classification, the new EIT Law may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. If we are classified as a “resident enterprise” and we incur these tax liabilities, our net income would decrease accordingly. We could suffer losses from corrupt or fraudulent business practices. Conducting business in China is inherently risky. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft, and other fraudulent practices are common in China. For example, in the six months ended September 30, 2005, we recorded a provision of approximately $1 million for doubtful sales transactions, consisting of orders primarily from three customers for products of the metallic parts division of our electronic & metallic parts business segment that had been shown as shipped to, and received by, the customers but in fact had been surreptitiously cancelled without shipment. Documentation reflecting the cancellation of the orders was uncovered following the departure of the General Manager of the Company’s metallic parts division who, with the assistance of a Production and Materials Control Supervisor in that division (who since left Deswell), had previously concealed such documentation. We could suffer additional losses from similar or other fraudulent practices if we are not successful in implementing and maintaining preventative measures. Controversies affecting China’s trade with the United States could harm our operations or depress our stock price. While China has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the United States, controversies between the United States and China may arise that threaten the status quo involving trade between the United States and China. These controversies could adversely affect our business by, among other things, causing our products in the United States to become more expensive, which could result in a reduction in the demand for our products by customers in the United States. Political or trade friction between the United States and China, whether or not actually affecting our business, could also adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. This risk has increased in recent years as our sales into the United States have accounted for increasing amounts of our global sales, culminating with our year ended March 31, 2007, when, for the first time, the United States became the largest geographic market for our products. Changes in currency rates involving the RMB implemented in July 2005 have increased our expenses since they were implemented. Changes in currency rates involving the Hong Kong dollar could increase our expenses or cause economic or political problems affecting our business. Our sales are mainly in United States dollars and Hong Kong dollars and our expenses are mainly in United States dollars, Hong Kong dollars and Chinese RMB. The Chinese government may not continue to maintain the present currency exchange mechanism, which fixes the Hong Kong dollar at approximately the range of 7.78 to 7.80 to each United States dollar and has not in the past presented a currency exchange risk. Although an announcement in May 2009 by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority indicated that he does not expect changes in the currency peg between the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar in the near future, if Hong Kong does change if Hong Kong follows China to a floating currency system or otherwise changes the exchange rate system of Hong Kong dollars to the U.S. dollars. Approximately 46.6%, 48.7% and 35.1% of our total costs and expenses were in RMB during the years ended March 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Between 1994 and July 2005, the market and official RMB rates were unified and the value of the RMB was essentially pegged to the U.S. dollar and was relatively stable. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China adjusted the exchange rate of RMB to the U.S. dollar by linking the RMB to a basket of currencies and simultaneously setting the exchange rate of RMB to U.S. dollars, from 1:8.27, to a narrow band of around 1:8.11, resulting in an approximate 2.4% appreciation in the value of the RMB against the 10 Table of Contents U.S. dollars at the end of calendar 2005 from July 21, 2005. For the calendar years 2006, 2007 and 2008, there were approximately 3.3%, 6.4% and 6.6% further appreciation in each respective year. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, the RMB appreciated from 1:7.01 at March 31, 2008 to 1:6.83 at March 31, 2009, a difference of 2.5%, to the U.S. dollar, resulting in an increase in our total costs and expenses of approximately 1.2% as compared to our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. The following chart illustrates the appreciation of the RMB to the US dollar from July 21, 2005 by showing the exchange ratio at the end of each quarter beginning on July 21, 2005 to March 31, 2009. (1) RMB (yuan) to US dollar data presented in this chart were derived from the historical currency converter available at http://forex-history.net. (2) If the end of a quarter fell on a Saturday or Sunday, datum is provided as of the previous Friday. At June 30, 2009, the exchange ratio of RMB to the US dollar was 1:6.831. The percentage difference between the exchange ratio of RMB to the US dollar at June 30, 2008 and at June 30, 2009 was 0.3%, slight when compared to percentage changes during various prior periods since July 25, 2005. However, because of the prevailing global economic recession, it is uncertain whether the relatively slight appreciation experienced during the twelve months ended June 30, 2009 can be expected to continue following an economic recovery. In any event, if the RMB continues its appreciation to the U.S. dollar, our operating costs would further increase and our financial results would be adversely affected. If we determined to pass onto our customers through price increases the effect of increases in the RMB relative to the U.S. dollars, it would make our products more expensive in global markets, such as the United States and the European Union. This could result in the loss of customers, who may seek, and be able to obtain, products and services comparable to those we offer in lower-cost regions of the world. If we did not increase our prices to pass on the effect of increases in the RMB relative to the U.S. dollars, our margins and profitability would suffer. Restrictions on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency may limit our ability to transfer excess funds or dividends to the company’s subsidiaries outside China. Our manufacturing operations are conducted by our subsidiaries located in China and funds are frequently transferred into our subsidiaries in China. Thus, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to transfer excess funds or dividends outside China. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. The Chinese regulatory authorities may impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. 11 Table of Contents We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks that may disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of swine flu, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other epidemics or outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 flu, a new strain of influenza virus, commonly referred to as “swine flu” by the media, first occurred in Mexico and quickly spread to other countries, including the U.S. and China. In the last decade, China has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of swine flu, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These health epidemics could result in severe travel restrictions and closures that would restrict our ability to ship our products. Potential outbreaks could also lead to temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and/or our end-user customers’ facilities, leading to reduced production, delayed or cancelled orders, and decrease in demand for our products. Any future health epidemic or outbreaks that could disrupt our operations and/or restrict our shipping abilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Political and economic instability of Hong Kong and Macao could harm our operations. Our administration and accounting office are located in Macao, formerly a Portuguese Colony and some of our customers and suppliers are located in Hong Kong, formerly a British Crown Colony. Sovereignty over Macao and Hong Kong was transferred to China effective on December 20, 1999 and July 1, 1997, respectively. Since their transfers, Macao and Hong Kong have become Special Administrative Regions of China, enjoying a high degree of autonomy except for foreign and defense affairs. Moreover, China’s political system and policies are not practiced in Macao or Hong Kong. Under the principle of “one country, two systems,” Macao and Hong Kong maintain legal systems that are different from that of China. Macao’s legal system is based on the Basic Law of the Macao Special Administrative Region and, similarly, Hong Kong’s legal system is based on the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. It is generally acknowledged as an open question whether Hong Kong’s future prosperity in its role as a hub and gateway to China after China’s accession to the World Trade Organization (introducing market liberalization in China) will be diminished. The continued stability of political, economic or commercial conditions in Macao and Hong Kong remain uncertain, and any instability could have an adverse impact on our business. Recent changes in the PRC’s labor law restrict our ability to reduce our workforce in the event of an economic downturn. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for 10 years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Such employment contracts with qualifying workers would not be terminable if, for example, Deswell determined to downsize its workforce in the event of an economic downturn. Under the new law, downsizing by 20% or more may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. Also, if we lay off more than 20 employees or 10% at one time, we have to communicate with the labor union of our Company and report to the District Labor Bureau. Deswell’s entire staff, who are employed to work exclusively within the PRC, is covered by the new law. During the year ending March 31, 2009, we reduced our workforce by about 2,000 at March 31, 2009 in response to the current global economic crisis. We may be forced to further downsize the workforce if global economic conditions do not improve or worsen and may incur much higher costs under China’s labor laws if we are forced to do so. Accordingly, this new law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on Deswell’s results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Our customers are dependent on shipping companies for delivery of our products and interruptions to shipping could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Generally, we sell our products F.O.B. Hong Kong or F.O.B. China and our customers are responsible for the transportation of products from Hong Kong or China to their final destinations. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Protecting, seeking licenses for or asserting claims over, intellectual property could be costly. We usually rely on trade secrets, industry expertise and the sharing with us by our customers of their intellectual property. However, there can be no assurance that intellectual property that we use in our business does not violate rights in such property belonging to others. We may be notified that we are infringing patents, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing alternatives or in obtaining licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our strategy has been to evaluate trade names and trademarks, and to consider seeking patents, where we believe that such trade names, trademarks or patents would be available and adequate to protect our rights to products or processes that we consider material to our business. To the extent we do seek to obtain trade names, trademarks or patents, we may be required to institute litigation in order to enforce them or other intellectual property rights to protect our business interests. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and could adversely affect sales, profitability and growth. We are dependent on customers operating in highly competitive markets and the inability of our customers to succeed in their markets can adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. The end markets we serve can experience major swings in demand which, in turn, can significantly impact our operations. Our financial performance depends on our customers’ ability to compete and succeed in their markets, which, apparently has been, and could continue to be, affected directly by the current global economic conditions. The majority of our customers’ products are characterized by rapid changes in technologies, increased standardization of technologies and shortening of product lifecycles. In many instances, our customers have experienced severe revenue erosion, pricing and margin pressures, and excess inventories during the past few years. Because our operations are international, we are subject to significant worldwide political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and have subsidiaries incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, Macao, Samoa and China. Our administrative and accounting office is located in Macao. We manufacture all of our products in China. As of March 31, 2009, approximately 71.7% of the net book value of our total identifiable fixed assets was located in China. We sell our products to customers principally in the United States, China, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Europe and Southeast Asia. Our international operations may be subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including: • changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies, • changes in international and domestic customs regulations, • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts, • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation, • difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations, and • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. 13 Table of Contents We depend on our executive officers, senior managers and skilled personnel. We lost three of our top executives during fiscal 2009 and have not yet replaced them, which has increased the pressure and responsibilities on our remaining senior managers. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers as well as upon our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, manufacturing and marketing personnel. During the year ended March 31, 2009, we lost three of our executive officers, two to retirement: Chi Wai Leung, our Executive Director of Engineering for Plastic Operations and Shu Kwan Lee, our Director of Administration and Marketing for Electronic Operations; and the other to an untimely death, Man Chi Tam, our Director of Engineering and Manufacturing for Electronic Operations. We have not yet replaced these executive officers but have divided their duties among other members of our management team, which has increased the responsibilities and pressures on them and made us even more dependent on our remaining managers Generally, our executive officers and senior managers are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements and we cannot assure you that we will be able retain them. The loss of service of any of these officers or key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We maintain no key person insurance on our executive officers. With the loss of three of our executive officers, we need to recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel. The recruitment of skilled executives and managers required to live and work nearly full time in the PRC is difficult and highly competitive. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled executive, technical and management personnel and if we are not able to do so, our business and operating results could be harmed. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly which could impact our future earnings. Our results could be adversely affected if we have to comply with new environmental regulations. Our operations create some environmentally sensitive waste that may increase in the future depending on the nature of our manufacturing operations. The general issue of the disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Currently, relevant Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility which causes serious environmental problems. Although it has not been alleged that we have violated any current environmental regulations by China government officials, the Chinese government could amend its current environmental protection laws and regulations. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting our operations. In addition, we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation, which enables customers to return a product at the end of its useful life and charge us with financial and other responsibility for environmentally safe collection, recycling, treatment and disposal. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our electronic products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS). The labeling provisions of similar legislation in China went into effect on March 1, 2007. Consequently, many suppliers of products sold into the EU countries have required their suppliers to be compliant with the new directive. Many of these customers in our electronic division have adopted this approach and have required our full compliance. Though we have devoted a significant amount of resources and effort planning and executing our RoHS program, it is possible that some of our products might be incompatible with such regulations. In such event, we could experience the loss of revenue, damaged reputation, diversion of resources, monetary penalties, and legal action. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we currently do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on us. Power shortages in China could affect our business. We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China, including areas where our manufacturing facilities are located, have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages and in relation to this we currently have a backup power system. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be 14 Table of Contents completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice of it. Any power shortage, brownout or blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. A material failure of internal control over financial reporting could materially impact the Company’s financial results. In designing and evaluating its internal control over financial reporting, management recognizes that any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives, and management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Management believes that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting currently provides reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. However, no system of internal controls can be designed to provide absolute assurance of effectiveness. See Item 15 Controls and Procedures, below. A material failure of internal control over financial reporting could materially impact the Company’s reported financial results and the market price of its stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to a material failure of internal control over financial reporting could have a negative effect on the Company’s reputation and business. Potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations and in the case of FASB’s pronouncement regarding the expensing of stock options have adversely impacted, and will in the future, adversely impact our financial results. Deswell prepares its financial statements in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles of the United States of America “US GAAP”. A change in these accounting principles and policies, especially as interpreted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market, may have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have increased general and administrative costs. The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s recent change to mandate the expensing of stock options requires us to record charges to earnings for stock option grants to employees and directors have adversely affected our financial results. As required, we implemented the new pronouncement effective on April 1, 2006 and the impact of that implementation has been reflected in our financial results beginning with for the first quarter of 2007, i.e., the quarter ended June 30, 2006 The concentration of share ownership in our senior management allows them to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. On June 30, 2009, members of our senior management and Board of Directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 20.4% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control or at least substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Deswell, or causing a change in control of Deswell that may not be favored by our other shareholders. Our board’s ability to amend our charter without shareholder approval could have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control. As permitted by the law of the British Virgin Islands, our Memorandum and Articles of Association, which are the terms used in the British Virgin Islands for a corporation’s charter and bylaws, may be amended by our board of directors without shareholder approval provided that a majority of our independent directors do not vote against the amendment. This includes amendments to increase or reduce our authorized capital stock or to create from time to time and issue one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations organized in the United States). Our board’s ability to amend our charter documents without shareholder approval, including its ability to create and issue preference shares, could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Deswell, including a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over the then current market price. Sales of our shares held by our former executive officers could cause our share price to decrease. During the year ended March 31, 2009, we lost three of our executive officers, two to retirement and the other to an untimely death. At the time of their retirement, one of our former executives held 1,075,000 of our shares and the other 331,040 of our shares. At the time his death, our third former executive officer held 362,225 of our shares, and these are now controlled by his estate. The 1,075,000 shares became freely transferable without 15 Table of Contents restriction in early April 2009 and we have been advised that 364,000 of these shares were sold since then through July 31, 2009. We believe that the 362,225 shares held by the estate of our deceased former executive became freely transferable on February 23, 2009 and that the 331,040 shares held by the third former executive became freely transferable on August 2, 2009. If the remaining shares held by our former executives are sold at or about the same time or from time to time, or merely because their shares are eligible for sale without the restrictions otherwise imposed on a company’s affiliates by Rule 144 under the US Securities Act of 1933, the prevailing market price of our shares may decrease. Our exemptions from certain of the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act limits the protections and information afforded to investors. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt or excluded from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months); and • Regulation FD, the SEC’s rules regulating disclosure of information by publicly traded companies and other issuers and requiring that when an issuer discloses material nonpublic information to certain individuals or entities such as stock analysts, or holders of the issuer’s securities who may trade on the basis of the information, the issuer must make public disclosure of that information. In addition, because we are a foreign private issuer, certain of the corporate governance standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market that are applied to domestic companies having securities included on The NASDAQ Stock Market are not applicable to us. For example, as a foreign private issuer organized under the law of the British Virgin Islands, we may follow our home company practice in lieu of some of the corporate governance provisions of sections 5600 et. seq. of NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rules. Accordingly, as the law of the British Virgin Islands does not prohibit us from doing so and since our practices are in compliance with our Memorandum and Articles of Association, we follow our home company practices with respect to the following NASDAQ Market Place rules: • Rule 5605(b)(2): Our independent directors do not meet in executive session; • Rule 5605(d): Our board does not have a compensation committee and compensation of our Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers is neither determined nor recommended to the board by a majority of our independent directors; and • Rule 5605(e): Nominees for appointment as our directors are not selected or recommended by either a majority of our independent directors, or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Until the retirement of Chi Wai Leung effective January 1, 2009, who, in addition to serving as our Executive Director of Engineering for Plastic Operations, also served on our board of directors, a majority of our Board of Directors were not “independent” directors within the definition of “independent director” in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4200(a)(15) (which was in effect at the time of such resignation and has since been replaced without material change by NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5605(a)(2)) and accordingly we did not theretofore comply with then applicable NASDAQ Market place Rule 4350(c)(1). Although our Board now consists of a majority of independent directors, if we choose to fill Mr. Leung’s former position on our Board with a member of our management team or a person not otherwise deemed “independent” under NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rules, we would not then comply with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5605(b)(1) (which replaced NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(1) effective on April 13, 2009) and our corporate governance standards would again differ in this regard from those applied to US domestic issuers under NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rules. 16 Table of Contents Because of these exemptions or exclusions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States or with securities included on The Nasdaq Stock Market. 