Risk Factors We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on our website, and other documents. The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe harbor for forward-looking statements on which we rely in making such disclosures. In connection with this “safe harbor”, we are hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements: We face numerous risks as a result of our operations in China. Our manufacturing facilities are located in China. As a result, our operations and assets are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties associated with doing business in China, which are discussed in more detail below. The Chinese government could change its policies toward or even nationalize private enterprise, which could result in the total loss of our investment in that country. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws, regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion or imports and sources of supply could materially and adversely affect us. The nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the Chinese government could result in the total loss of our investment in that country. There may be a lack of remedies and impartiality under the Chinese legal system that prevents us from enforcing the agreements under which we operate our factories. We do not own the land on which our factories in China are located. We occupy our manufacturing facilities under land use agreements or under tenancy agreements with the local Chinese government. These agreements may be difficult to enforce in China, which could force us to accept terms that may not be as favorable as those provided in our agreements. Unlike the U.S., China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have little precedential value. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. These matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. If our business licenses in China were not renewed, we would be required to move our operations out of China, which would impair our profitability, competitiveness and market position and jeopardize our ability to continue operations. Our activities in China require business licenses. This requires a review and approval of our activities by various national and local agencies of Chinese government. The Chinese government may not continue to approve our activities or grant or renew our licenses. Our inability to obtain needed approvals or licenses could prevent us from continuing to conduct operations in China. If for any reason we were required to move our manufacturing operations outside of China, our profitability would be substantially impaired, our competitiveness and market position would be materially jeopardized and we may not be able to continue operations. A fire, severe weather, flood, or other act of God could cause significant damage to our properties in China and disrupt our business operations. Firefighting and disaster relief or assistance in China are primitive by Western standards. At March 31, 2007, we maintained fire, casualty and theft insurance aggregating approximately $59,151,000 covering certain of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment and factory buildings in China. The proceeds of this insurance may not be sufficient to cover material damage to, or the loss of, any of our factories due to fire, severe weather, flood, or other act of God or cause. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. 5 Table of Contents Possible changes and uncertainties in economic policies in the Special Economic Zones of China in which we operate could harm our operations by eliminating benefits we currently enjoy. As part of its economic reform, China has designated certain areas, including Shenzhen where we have certain manufacturing facilities, as Special Economic Zones. Foreign enterprises in these areas benefit from greater economic autonomy and more favorable tax treatment than enterprises in other parts of China. Changes in the policies or laws governing Special Economic Zones could eliminate these benefits. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in China have been more successful in certain provinces than others, and the continuation or increase of these disparities could affect the political or social stability of China. We are subject to the risk of increased income and other taxes in China. Deswell has enjoyed preferential tax concessions in the PRC as a high-tech enterprise and has benefited from favorable overall effective income tax rates of 3.2%, 0.27% and 8.7 % for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In March 2007, China enacted the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or EIT Law, under which, effective January 1, 2008, China will adopt a uniform income tax rate of 25.0% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and cancel several tax incentives enjoyed previously by foreign-invested enterprises such as Deswell. However, for foreign-invested enterprises like Deswell that were established before the promulgation of the EIT Law, a five-year transition period is provided during which reduced income tax rates will apply but gradually be phased out. Since the PRC government has not announced implementation measures for the transitional policy concerning such preferential tax rates, we cannot at this time reasonably estimate the financial impact of the new tax law on Deswell or to us at this time. The EIT Law further includes provisions relating to withholding on interest, royalties, dividends or other passive income, including dividend payments from companies in the PRC like Deswell. We are in the process of analyzing EIT Law to determine, and whether by, and the feasibility of, changing Deswell’s corporate structure, we can reduce the impact of the new PRC enterprise tax law. However, there may be no solution, and if there is one, it may be short-lived. It currently appears that the EIT Law and its associated new income tax rates and withholding provisions will reduce Deswell’s after-tax net income for distribution to us from our China subsidiaries. We could suffer losses from corrupt or fraudulent business practices. Conducting business in China is inherently risky. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft, and other fraudulent practices are common in China. For example, in the six months ended September 30, 2005, we recorded a provision of approximately $1 million for doubtful sales transactions, consisting of orders primarily from three customers for products of the metallic parts division of our electronic & metallic parts business segment that had been shown as shipped to, and received by, the customers but in fact had been surreptitiously cancelled without shipment. Documentation reflecting the cancellation of the orders was uncovered following the departure of the General Manager of the Company’s metallic parts division who, with the assistance of a Production and Materials Control Supervisor in that division (who since left Deswell), had previously concealed such documentation. We could suffer additional losses from similar or other fraudulent practices if we are not successful in implementing and maintaining preventative measures. Controversies affecting China’s trade with the United States could harm our operations or depress our stock price. While China has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the United States, controversies between the United States and China may arise that threaten the status quo involving trade between the United States and China. These controversies could adversely affect our business by, among other things, causing our products in the United States to become more expensive, which could result in a reduction in the demand for our products by customers in the United States. Political or trade friction between the United States and China, whether or not actually affecting our business, could also adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. This risk has increased in recent years as our sales into the United States have accounted for increasing amounts of our global sales, culminating with our year ended March 31, 2007, when, for the first time, the United States became the largest geographic market for our products. 6 Table of Contents Changes in currency rates involving the Hong Kong dollar could increase our expenses or cause economic or political problems affecting our business. Changes in currency rates involving the RMB implemented in July 2005 increased our expenses in the year ended March 31, 2007. Our sales are mainly in United States dollars and Hong Kong dollars and our expenses are mainly in United States dollars, Hong Kong dollars and Chinese RMB. The Chinese government may not continue to maintain the present currency exchange mechanism, which fixes the Hong Kong dollar at approximately 7.78 to each United States dollar and has not in the past presented a currency exchange risk. This could change in the future if those in Hong Kong arguing for a floating currency system prevail in the ongoing debate over whether to continue to peg the Hong Kong dollars to the U.S. dollars. For approximately three years prior to July 2005, the exchange rate between the Chinese currency, the renminbi, and the U.S. dollars varied by less than one-tenth of one percent. However, on July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China adjusted the exchange rate of U.S. dollars to RMB from 1:8.27 to 1:8.11, resulting in an approximately 2% appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. As a result, and in addition to increases in our plastic resin and labor costs, our operating costs increased from levels in 2005 and 2006. Since we were not able to pass most of these cost increases on to our customers by increasing sales prices of our products, our gross margins, operating income and net income were adversely affected in the year ended March 31, 2007. If the Chinese government allows a further and significant RMB appreciation, and there are indications that the Chinese government has accelerated the RMB’s appreciation to the dollar with it reaching 7.5712:1 on July 20, 2007, our operating costs could further increase and could further adversely affect our financial results. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or other diseases may have a negative impact on our business and operating results. In the first calendar quarter of 2003, several economies in Asia, including Hong Kong, where our logistic support office and some of our customers are located, and southern China, where our factories are located, were affected by the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. If there is a recurrence of an outbreak of SARS, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, a future SARS outbreak could result in quarantines or closure to our office in Hong Kong or factories in China if our employees are infected with SARS and ongoing concerns regarding SARS, particularly its effect on travel, could negatively impact our customers and suppliers based in Hong Kong or China and our business and operating results. In addition, there has recently been an outbreak of avian influenza in humans in Asian countries, including Vietnam, South Korea and Japan, which has proven fatal in some instances. As the human death toll continues to grow, many are concerned that the virus will mutate and trigger a human pandemic. If such an outbreak were to spread to southern China, it may adversely affect our business operating results. Political and economic instability of Hong Kong and Macao could harm our operations. Our administration and accounting office are located in Macao, formerly a Portuguese Colony and some of our customers and suppliers are located in Hong Kong, formerly a British Crown Colony. Sovereignty over Macao and Hong Kong was transferred to China effective on December 20, 1999 and July 1, 1997, respectively. Since their transfers, Macao and Hong Kong have become Special Administrative Regions of China, enjoying a high degree of autonomy except for foreign and defense affairs. Moreover, China’s political system and policies are not practiced in Macao or Hong Kong. Under the principle of “one country, two systems,” Macao and Hong Kong maintain legal systems that are different from that of China. Macao’s legal system is based on the Basic Law of the Macao Special Administrative Region and, similarly, Hong Kong’s legal system is based on the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. It is generally acknowledged as an open question whether Hong Kong’s future prosperity in its role as a hub and gateway to China after China’s accession to the World Trade Organization (introducing market liberalization in China) will be diminished. The continued stability of political, economic or commercial conditions in Macao and Hong Kong remain uncertain, and any instability could have an adverse impact on our business. A recent labor shortage in southern China could adversely affect our gross margins or decrease revenue. The Company carries out all of its manufacturing operations in Southern China, where it has been able to take advantage of the lower overhead costs and inexpensive labor rates as compared to Hong Kong. Historically, there has been an abundance of labor in southern China, but factories in southern China are facing a labor shortage as migrant workers seek better wages and working conditions elsewhere. In an effort to counter this trend, minimum wages for workers in Southern China were increased during the year ended March 31, 2007, adversely impacting our gross margins, operating income and net income. If this trend continues, the Company’s operations could again be adversely affected. Independent of any regional increases imposed by the government on minimum wages, the Company’s business could also be adversely affected by, for example, having insufficient workers to permit the Company from manufacturing at peak capacity or forcing the Company to increase wages in order to recruit from a 7 Table of Contents smaller pool of available workers. This could result in lower revenues and/or increased manufacturing costs, which would adversely affect gross margins, operating income and net income. We are dependent on a few major customers and have no long-term contracts with them. Our sales would substantially decrease and we would suffer decreases in net income or losses if we lose any of our major customers, if they substantially reduce their orders or if they are unable to pay us. Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been to a small number of customers. Our four largest customers during the year ended March 31, 2007 were Digidesign Inc., VTech Telecommunication Ltd., Peavey Electronics Corp. and Line 6 Manufacturing. Each of these customers individually accounted for 10% or more of our total net sales during the year ended March 31, 2007 and accounted for an aggregate of 51.0%, 48.3% and 51.5%, respectively, of our total net sales during the years ended March 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our sales are based on purchase orders and we have no long-term contracts with any of our customers and the percentage of sales to any of our customers may fluctuate from time to time. The loss of any one of our largest customers or a substantial reduction in orders from any of them would adversely impact our sales and decrease our net income or cause us to incur losses unless and until we were able to replace the customer or order with one or more of comparable size. In addition, a substantial portion of our sales is made on credit and our results of operations would be adversely affected if a major customer were unable to pay for our products or services. We have no long-term contracts to obtain plastic resins and our profit margins and net income could suffer from an increase in resin prices. The primary materials used by us in the manufacture of our plastic injection molded products are various plastic resins. The following table shows our cost of plastic resins as a percentage of our cost of plastic products sold and as a percentage of our total costs of goods sold for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007: Year ended March 31, 2005 2006 2007 Resins cost as a % of plastic products sold 58 % 53 % 52 % Resins cost as a % of total cost of goods sold 24 % 21 % 20 % We have no long-term contracts with our resin suppliers. Accordingly, our financial performance is dependent to a significant extent on resin markets and the ability to pass through price increases to our customers. The capacity, supply and demand for plastic resins and the petrochemical intermediates from which they are produced are subject to cyclical price fluctuations, including those arising from supply shortages. Consequently, resin prices may fluctuate as a result of changes in natural gas and crude oil prices and the capacity, supply and demand for resin and petrochemical intermediates from which they are produced. We have found that increases in resin prices are difficult to pass on to our customers. In the past increases in resin prices have increased our costs of goods sold and adversely affected our profit margins. A significant increase in resin prices in the future could likewise adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations. We have no written agreements with suppliers to obtain components and our profit margins and net income could suffer from an increase in component prices. We have no written agreements with our component suppliers and for certain customers, we are responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing their products. This could result in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins. Accordingly, our financial performance could be materially or adversely affected by any increase in component prices. We are facing increasing competition, which has had an adverse effect on our gross profit margins. Over the last several years, we have been forced to lower our prices as a result of increasing competition in our market segments, resulting in lower gross profit margins. The following tables shows our gross margins for each of our last four fiscal years and percentage decline from the previous fiscal year for each of last three fiscal years: 8 Table of Contents March 31 Year ended March 31, 2007 Year ended March 31, 2006 Year ended March 31, 2005 2004 Percentage Percentage Percentage increase from decline from decline from Percent previous year Percent previous year Percent previous year Percent Gross margin 22.9 % 3.6 % 22.1 % (17.2 )% 26.7 % (16.6 )% 32.0 % If we are forced to continue to lower our prices and are unable to offset this decrease by increasing our sales volumes, our net sales and gross margins will decline. If we cannot stem the decline in our gross margins, our financial position may be harmed and our stock price may decrease. Our customers are dependent on shipping companies for delivery of our products and interruptions to shipping could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Generally, we sell our products F.O.B. Hong Kong or F.O.B. China and our customers are responsible for the transportation of products from Hong Kong or China to their final destinations. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Because our operations are international, we are subject to significant worldwide political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and have subsidiaries incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, Macao, Samoa, Malaysia and China. Our administrative and accounting office is located in Macao. We manufacture all of our products in China. As of March 31, 2007, approximately 70.3% of the net book value of our total identifiable fixed assets was located in China. We sell our products to customers principally in China, the United States, Europe and Hong Kong. Our international operations may be subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including: • changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies, • changes in international and domestic customs regulations, • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts, • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation, • difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations, and • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. Our loss of certain members of our senior management could cause disruptions in our business and harm our customer relationships thereby adversely affecting sales. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of • Richard Lau, our former Chief Executive Officer, who retired from this post in January 2007 , and remains Chairman of our Board of Directors; • Franki S.F. Tse, our Chief Executive Officer, who in February 2007 succeeded Richard Lau, who remains Chairman of our Board of Directors; • C. P. Li, our Executive Director, General Manager in charge of manufacturing and administrative operations for plastic products; • C. W. Leung, Executive Director of Engineering in charge of the mold division and engineering for our plastic manufacturing operations; 9 Table of Contents • S. K. Lee, our Director of Administration and Marketing and General Manager in charge of administrative and marketing operations for electronic and metallic products; and • M. C. Tam, our Director of Engineering and Manufacturing, in charge of manufacturing and operations for electronic and metallic products. Mr. Richard Lau, who retired as our Chief Executive Officer in February 2007, and Messrs. Li and Leung founded our company and have each played integral roles in the management, growth and development of our company in general and our plastic injection molding business in particular. They have developed and maintain relationships with several of our key customers in our plastic injection molding business. Mr. S. K. Lee and Mr. M. C. Tam founded our electronic products manufacturing business and have developed and continue to manage it since we acquired control of the business from them. We have no employment contracts with Messrs. Li, Leung, Lee and Tam and their loss would require us to find executives suitable to replace them, which could be difficult and disruptive to our business. Customers with whom they have relationships may cease to deal with us or choose to use a competitor for a greater portion of their business, resulting in our loss of sales. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly which could impact our future earnings. Our results could be adversely affected if we have to comply with new environmental regulations. Our operations create some environmentally sensitive waste that may increase in the future depending on the nature of our manufacturing operations. The general issue of the disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Currently, relevant Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility which causes serious environmental problems. Although it has not been alleged that we have violated any current environmental regulations by China government officials, the Chinese government could amend its current environmental protection laws and regulations. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting our operations. In addition, we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation, which enables customers to return a product at the end of its useful life and charge us with financial and other responsibility for environmentally safe collection, recycling, treatment and disposal. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our electronic products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS). The labeling provisions of similar legislation in China went into effect on March 1, 2007. Consequently, many suppliers of products sold into the EU countries have required their suppliers to be compliant with the new directive. Many of these customers in our electronic division have adopted this approach and have required our full compliance. Though we have devoted a significant amount of resources and effort planning and executing our RoHS program, it is possible that some of our products might be incompatible with such regulations. In such event, we could experience the loss of revenue, damaged reputation, diversion of resources, monetary penalties, and legal action. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we currently do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on us. Power shortages in China could affect our business. We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China, including areas where our manufacturing facilities are located, have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages and in relation to this we currently have a backup power system. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice of it. Any power shortage, brownout or blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. 10 Table of Contents The concentration of share ownership in our senior management allows them to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. Our senior management as a group, each of whom are also members and constitute a majority of our board of directors, and our Chairman of the Board, directly or indirectly through an affiliated company beneficially own approximately 28.2 % our shares at June 30, 2007. As a result, acting together they may be able to control, and they can substantially influence, the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Deswell, or causing a change in control of Deswell that may not be favored by our other shareholders. Compliance with the first phase of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has increased our general and administrative expenses; if we do not receive an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our shares. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governing internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, which started in connection with this Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended March 31, 2007, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of Deswell’s internal controls over financial reporting appears in Item 15 of this Annual Report. However, this Annual Report does not include an attestation report of Deswell’s registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by the company’s registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) that permit us to provide only management’s report in this annual report. Under the SEC’s current rules, beginning with our Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2008, we will be required to have our public accounting firm that audits the company’s financial statements attest to and report on our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting. If our independent auditors interpret Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently from us or if our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting or with the level at which it is documented, operated or reviewed, they may decline to attest to management’s assessment or issue a qualified report. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. Legislative actions and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations and in the case of FASB’s new pronouncement regarding the expensing of stock options will adversely impact our financial results. There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules and there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have increased general and administrative costs. The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s recent change to mandate the expensing of stock options will require us to record charges to earnings for stock option grants to employees and directors and will adversely affect our financial results after we implement the new pronouncement. As required, we implemented the new pronouncement effective on April 1, 2006 and the impact of that implementation has been reflected in our financial results beginning with for the first quarter of 2007, i.e., the quarter ended June 30, 2006 Our board’s ability to amend our charter without shareholder approval could have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control. As permitted by the law of the British Virgin Islands, our Memorandum and Articles of Association, which are the terms used in the British Virgin Islands for a corporation’s charter and bylaws, may be amended by our board of directors without shareholder approval provided that a majority of our independent directors do not vote against the amendment. This includes amendments to increase or reduce our authorized capital stock or to create from time to time and issue one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations 11 Table of Contents organized in the United States). Our board’s ability to amend our charter documents without shareholder approval, including its ability to create and issue preference shares, could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Deswell, including a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over the then current market price. Our exemptions from certain of the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act limits the protections and information afforded to investors. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt or excluded from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months); and • Regulation FD, the SEC’s rules regulating disclosure of information by publicly traded companies and other issuers and requiring that when an issuer discloses material nonpublic information to certain individuals or entities such as stock analysts, or holders of the issuer’s securities who may trade on the basis of the information, the issuer must make public disclosure of that information. In addition, because we are a foreign private issuer, certain of the corporate governance standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market that are applied to domestic companies having securities included on The Nasdaq Stock Market are not applicable to us. For example, as a foreign private issuer organized under the law of the British Virgin Islands, we may follow our home company practice in lieu of some of the provisions of NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rule 4350. Accordingly, as the law of the British Virgin Islands does not prohibit us from doing so and since our practices are in compliance with our Memorandum and Articles of Association, we follow our home company practices with respect to the following Nasdaq Market Place rules: • Rule 4350(c)(1): A majority of our Board of Directors are not “independent” directors within the definition of “independent director” in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4200(a)(15); • Rule 4350(c)(2): Our independent directors do not meet in executive session; • Rule 4350(c)(3): Our board does not have a compensation committee; • Rule 4350(c)(4): Nominees for appointment as our directors are not selected or recommended by (i) a majority of our independent directors, or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Because of these exemptions or exclusions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States or with securities included on The NASDAQ Stock Market. We may not pay dividends in the future. Although we have declared dividends during each of the last nine fiscal years, we may not be able to declare them or may decide not to declare them in the future. We will determine the amounts of the dividends when they are declared and even if dividends are declared in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. 12 Table of Contents 