Risk Factors We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on our website, and other documents. The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe harbor for forward-looking statements on which we rely in making such disclosures. In connection with this “safe harbor”, we are hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements: We are dependent on a few major customers and have no long-term contracts with them. Our sales would substantially decrease and we would suffer decreases in net income or losses if we lose any of our major customers, if they substantially reduce their orders or if they are unable to pay us. Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been to a small number of customers. Our four largest customers during the year ended March 31, 2008 were Digidesign Inc., Line 6 Manufacturing, Inter-Tel Integrated Systems and N&J Co. Ltd. Each of these customers individually accounted for 10% or more of our total net sales during the year ended March 31, 2008. Customers that individually accounted for ten percent or more of our net sales during the years ended March 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, accounted for total of 48.3%, 51.5% and 53.3%, respectively, of our total net sales during those years. Our sales are based on purchase orders and we have no long-term contracts with any of our customers and the percentage of sales to any of our customers may fluctuate from time to time. The loss of any one of our largest customers or a substantial reduction in orders from any of them would adversely impact our sales and decrease our net income or cause us to incur losses unless and until we were able to replace the customer or order with one or more of comparable size. In addition, a substantial portion of our sales is made on credit and our results of operations would be adversely affected if a major customer were unable to pay for our products or services. We have no written agreements with suppliers to obtain components and our profit margins and net income could suffer from an increase in component prices. We have no written agreements with our component suppliers and for certain customers, we are responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing their products. This could result in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins. Accordingly, our financial performance could be materially or adversely affected by any increase in component prices. Our gross margins fluctuate from year to year and may be adversely affected by a number of factors. The following table sets forth, for the years indicated, our gross margins from our two principal operating segments and for our company as a whole: Year ended March 31, 2006 2007 2008 Plastic product 11.6 % 13.9 % 10.5 % Electronic and metallic product 10.5 9.0 7.9 Total 22.1 % 22.9 % 18.4 % Fluctuations in our margins have been affected, often adversely, and may continue to be affected, by numerous factors, including: • increasing competition in our market segments, which has forced us to maintain or reduce unit prices or attempt to pass on our costs of materials and components on to customers; • costs of labor, particularly in recent years, which such costs have increased substantially as consequence of increasing governmental regulation directed at labor practices and policies; • continuing appreciation of the renminbi, in which we pay our labor and manufacturing costs, against the U.S. dollar, in which we present our financial statements; • our cost of raw materials, especially our cost of plastic resins; 5 Table of Contents • changes in the prices or the availability of components needed to manufacture our electronic products; • changes in our customer mix or the mix of higher and lower margin products, or a combination of both in any year; • increases in value-added taxes as result of changes in the value-added tax policy of the Chinese government for various categories of export products; and • increased costs of conforming our products to consumer and product safety laws and regulations of the various countries in which our products are sold. We expect gross margins generally and for specific products to continue to fluctuate from year to year. As a result of the above-factors, the confluence of which caused our gross margins to decline substantially in the year ended March 31, 2008 from levels during fiscal 2007, our gross margins may continue to decline. If we cannot stem the decline in our gross margins, our operating results would suffer, dividend payments to shareholders may be decreased or eliminated, our financial position may be harmed and our stock price may fall. We have no long-term contracts to obtain plastic resins and our profit margins and net income could suffer from an increase in resin prices. The primary materials used by us in the manufacture of our plastic injection molded products are various plastic resins. The following table shows our cost of plastic resins as a percentage of our cost of plastic products sold and as a percentage of our total costs of goods sold for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008: Year ended March 31, 2008 2006 2007 2008 Average cost of ABS as a percentage of the total cost of: Plastic products sold 53 % 52 % 46 % Goods sold 21 % 20 % 17 % We have no long-term contracts with our resin suppliers. Accordingly, our financial performance is dependent to a significant extent on resin markets and the ability to pass through price increases to our customers. The capacity, supply and demand for plastic resins and the petrochemical intermediates from which they are produced are subject to cyclical price fluctuations, including those arising from supply shortages. Consequently, resin prices may fluctuate as a result of changes in natural gas and crude oil prices and the capacity, supply and demand for resin and petrochemical intermediates from which they are produced. We have found that increases in resin prices are difficult to pass on to our customers. In the past increases in resin prices have increased our costs of goods sold and adversely affected our profit margins. A significant increase in resin prices in the future could likewise adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations. The Chinese government could change its policies toward or even nationalize private enterprise, which could result in the total loss of our investment in that country. Our manufacturing facilities are located in China. As a result, our operations and assets are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties associated with doing business in China. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws, regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion or imports and sources of supply could materially and adversely affect us. The nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the Chinese government could result in the total loss of our investment in that country. There may be a lack of remedies and impartiality under the Chinese legal system that prevents us from enforcing the agreements under which we operate our factories. We do not own the land on which our factories in China are located. We occupy our manufacturing facilities under land use agreements or under tenancy agreements with the local Chinese government. These agreements may be difficult to enforce in China, which could force us to accept terms that may not be as favorable as those provided in our agreements. Unlike the U.S., China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have little precedential value. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and 6 Table of Contents regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. These matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. If our business licenses in China were not renewed, we would be required to move our operations out of China, which would impair our profitability, competitiveness and market position and jeopardize our ability to continue operations. Our activities in China require business licenses. This requires a review and approval of our activities by various national and local agencies of Chinese government. The Chinese government may not continue to approve our activities or grant or renew our licenses. Our inability to obtain needed approvals or licenses could prevent us from continuing to conduct operations in China. If for any reason we were required to move our manufacturing operations outside of China, our profitability would be substantially impaired, our competitiveness and market position would be materially jeopardized and we may not be able to continue operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover loss related to major accidents or acts of God. Firefighting and disaster relief or assistance in China are primitive by Western standards. At March 31, 2008, we maintained fire, casualty and theft insurance aggregating approximately $126,846,000 covering certain of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment and factory buildings in China. The proceeds of this insurance may not be sufficient to cover material damage to, or the loss of, any of our factories due to fire, severe weather, flood, act of God in the future, such as the recent earthquake that has devastated areas in Sichuan province in China, the epicenter of which is about 800 to 900 miles from Dongguan, China, or other cause. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance. We may be faced with product liability claims. Despite quality assurance measures, there remains a risk that defects may occur in our products. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects. They could, moreover, impair the market’s acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. At March 31, 2008, we maintained product liability insurance aggregating approximately $4,500,000. Although we believe such coverage is adequate based on the historical rate and nature of customer product quality claims or complaints, we cannot assure investors that this insurance would adequately cover our costs arising from any significant defects in our products. Possible changes and uncertainties in economic policies in the Special Economic Zones of China in which we operate could harm our operations by eliminating benefits we currently enjoy. As part of its economic reform, China has designated certain areas, including Shenzhen where we have certain manufacturing facilities, as Special Economic Zones. Foreign enterprises in these areas benefit from greater economic autonomy and more favorable tax treatment than enterprises in other parts of China. Changes in the policies or laws governing Special Economic Zones could eliminate these benefits. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in China have been more successful in certain provinces than others, and the continuation or increase of these disparities could affect the political or social stability of China. Changes to PRC tax laws and heightened efforts by the China’s tax authorities to increase revenues are expected to subject us to greater taxes. Under prior PRC law, we were afforded a number of tax concessions by, and tax refunds from, China’s tax authorities on a substantial portion of our operations in China by reinvesting all or part of the profits attributable to our PRC manufacturing operations. . However, on March 16, 2007, the Chinese government enacted a new unified enterprise income tax law which became effective on January 1, 2008. Prior to this new income tax law, as a foreign invested enterprise located in Dongguan, PRC, our PRC subsidiaries have enjoyed preferential tax as high tech enterprise or export-oriented enterprise at the range of 10% to 15% and 3% local income tax. Under the new income tax law most domestic enterprises and foreign invested enterprises, like Deswell, would be subject to a single PRC enterprise income tax rate and gradually transfer to the new tax rate of 25% within five years. For information on the new enterprise income tax, (“EIT”) rates as announced by the PRC’s State Council, please see the table in Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. The preferential tax treatment to our subsidiaries in the PRC of qualifying for tax refunds as a result of reinvesting their profits earned in previous years in the PRC also expired on 7 Table of Contents January 1, 2008. Therefore, the impact of this increase on our overall tax rate will depend on, among other things, our income from our PRC subsidiaries, the actual implementation of the terms of transition under the EIT by the PRC government and our ability to qualify our existing operations as high-tech enterprises under the new law. Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in the PRC to us is subject to restrictions under PRC law. The new PRC tax law could force us to reduce the amount of dividends we have historically paid to our shareholders or possibly eliminate them or we may decide not pay dividends in the future. Under PRC law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to our subsidiaries in the PRC refers to after-tax profits as determined in accordance with accounting principles and financial regulations applicable to PRC enterprises (“China GAAP”) less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that it is required to make. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. The calculation of distributable profits under China GAAP differs in many respects from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. As a result, our subsidiaries in PRC may not be able to pay any dividend in a given year as determined under U.S. GAAP. The China’s tax authorities may require changes in determining income of the Company that would limit its ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. PRC law requires companies, including our PRC subsidiaries, to reserve about 11% of their profits for future development and staff welfare, which amounts are not distributable as dividends. These rules and possible changes to them could restrict our PRC subsidiaries from repatriating funds ultimately to us and our stockholders as dividends. Prior to the new EIT law, PRC-organized companies were exempt from withholding taxes with respect to earnings distributions, or dividends, paid to shareholders of PRC companies outside the PRC, such as was the case when our PRC subsidiaries distributed portions of their earnings to our offshore subsidiaries. However, under the new EIT Law, dividends payable to foreign investors which are derived from sources within the PRC will be subject to income tax at the rate of 10% by way of withholding unless the foreign investors are companies incorporated in countries which have a tax treaty agreement with PRC and rate agreed by both parties will be applied. As a result of this new PRC withholding tax, amounts available to us in earnings distributions from our PRC enterprises will be reduced. Since we derive most of our profits from our subsidiaries in PRC, the reduction in amounts available for distribution from our PRC enterprises could, depending on the income generated by our PRC subsidiaries, force us to reduce, or possibly eliminate, the dividends we have paid to our shareholders historically. For this reason, or other factors, we may decide not to declare dividends in the future. If we do pay dividends, we will determine the amounts when they are declared and even if we do declare dividends in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. We could suffer losses from corrupt or fraudulent business practices. Conducting business in China is inherently risky. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft, and other fraudulent practices are common in China. For example, in the six months ended September 30, 2005, we recorded a provision of approximately $1 million for doubtful sales transactions, consisting of orders primarily from three customers for products of the metallic parts division of our electronic & metallic parts business segment that had been shown as shipped to, and received by, the customers but in fact had been surreptitiously cancelled without shipment. Documentation reflecting the cancellation of the orders was uncovered following the departure of the General Manager of the Company’s metallic parts division who, with the assistance of a Production and Materials Control Supervisor in that division (who since left Deswell), had previously concealed such documentation. We could suffer additional losses from similar or other fraudulent practices if we are not successful in implementing and maintaining preventative measures. Controversies affecting China’s trade with the United States could harm our operations or depress our stock price. While China has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the United States, controversies between the United States and China may arise that threaten the status quo involving trade between the United States and China. These controversies could adversely affect our business by, among other things, causing our products in the United States to become more expensive, which could result in a reduction in the demand for our products by customers in the United States. Political or trade friction between the United States and China, whether or not actually affecting our business, could also adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. This risk has increased in recent years as our sales into the United States have accounted for increasing amounts of 8 Table of Contents our global sales, culminating with our year ended March 31, 2007, when, for the first time, the United States became the largest geographic market for our products. Changes in currency rates involving the Hong Kong dollar could increase our expenses or cause economic or political problems affecting our business. Changes in currency rates involving the RMB implemented in July 2005 have increased our expenses since they were implemented. Our sales are mainly in United States dollars and Hong Kong dollars and our expenses are mainly in United States dollars, Hong Kong dollars and Chinese RMB. The Chinese government may not continue to maintain the present currency exchange mechanism, which fixes the Hong Kong dollar at approximately the range of 7.78 to 7.80 to each United States dollar and has not in the past presented a currency exchange risk. This could change in the future if those in Hong Kong arguing for a floating currency system prevail in the ongoing debate over whether to continue to peg the Hong Kong dollars to the U.S. dollars. For approximately three years prior to July 2005, the exchange rate between the Chinese currency, the renminbi, and the U.S. dollars varied by less than one-tenth of one percent. However, on July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China adjusted the exchange rate of U.S. dollars to RMB from 1:8.27 to 1:8.11, resulting in an approximately 2.4% appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. As a result, and in addition to increases in our plastic resin and labor costs, our operating costs increased from levels in 2006 and 2007. Since we were not able to pass most of these cost increases on to our customers by increasing sales prices of our products, our gross margins, operating income and net income were adversely affected in each of the last three fiscal years. If the Chinese government allows a further and significant RMB appreciation, and there are indications that the Chinese government has accelerated the RMB’s appreciation to the dollar with it reaching 1:6.823 on July 25, 2008, our operating costs could further increase and could further adversely affect our financial results. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or other diseases may have a negative impact on our business and operating results. In the first calendar quarter of 2003, several economies in Asia, including Hong Kong, where our logistic support office and some of our customers are located, and southern China, where our factories are located, were affected by the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. If there is a recurrence of an outbreak of SARS, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, a future SARS outbreak could result in quarantines or closure to our office in Hong Kong or factories in China if our employees are infected with SARS and ongoing concerns regarding SARS, particularly its effect on travel, could negatively impact our customers and suppliers based in Hong Kong or China and our business and operating results. In addition, there has recently been an outbreak of avian influenza in humans in Asian countries, including Vietnam, South Korea and Japan, which has proven fatal in some instances. Many are concerned that the virus will mutate and trigger a human pandemic. Additionally, there have been recent reports of a virus called enterovirus-71 that has broken out in China (including the Southern Region of Guangdong province, where our factories are located), Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore and Vietnam, which in China has killed several children and sickened more than 4,000. If an outbreak of avian influenza were to spread to southern China or if enterovirus-71 or mutations were to spread and begin infecting adults, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Political and economic instability of Hong Kong and Macao could harm our operations. Our administration and accounting office are located in Macao, formerly a Portuguese Colony and some of our customers and suppliers are located in Hong Kong, formerly a British Crown Colony. Sovereignty over Macao and Hong Kong was transferred to China effective on December 20, 1999 and July 1, 1997, respectively. Since their transfers, Macao and Hong Kong have become Special Administrative Regions of China, enjoying a high degree of autonomy except for foreign and defense affairs. Moreover, China’s political system and policies are not practiced in Macao or Hong Kong. Under the principle of “one country, two systems,” Macao and Hong Kong maintain legal systems that are different from that of China. Macao’s legal system is based on the Basic Law of the Macao Special Administrative Region and, similarly, Hong Kong’s legal system is based on the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. It is generally acknowledged as an open question whether Hong Kong’s future prosperity in its role as a hub and gateway to China after China’s accession to the World Trade Organization (introducing market liberalization in China) will be diminished. The continued stability of political, economic or commercial conditions in Macao and Hong Kong remain uncertain, and any instability could have an adverse impact on our business. 9 Table of Contents Labor shortages in Southern China have adversely affected our gross margins and will likely continue to do so in the future. We conduct all of our manufacturing operations in Southern China, specifically in Guangdong province, where we were able to take advantage of the lower overhead costs and inexpensive labor rates as compared to Hong Kong. Historically, there has been an abundance of labor in Southern China, but since 2002, intensifying in 2004 and continuing to worsen since then, factories in Southern China have been facing a labor shortages as migrant workers engaged in production (typically young women and men who come from various rural provinces in the PRC for the purpose of working for wages higher than are available in such rural regions), technical workers and middle level management seek better wages and working conditions in other provinces of China. A recent survey conducted by Guangdong labor authorities predicts that the labor shortage in Guangdong will worsen in 2008 as demand for technically skilled workers rises by 20% and the number of ordinary workers needed rises by 10%. Past efforts by Guangdong authorities seeking to arrest the labor shortages by removing the ban on hiring new migrant laborers in the month after the Lunar New Year holiday and raising the minimum wage do not appear to have been successful at luring workers back to Southern China and such changes to the minimum wage have adversely impacted our gross margins. This trend of labor shortages is expected to continue, fueled by the effects of the one-child policy imposed by the Chinese government over the past three decades and will likely result in increasing wages as companies seek to keep their existing work forces. Continuing labor shortages can be expected to adversely impact our future operating results by, for example, preventing us from manufacturing at peak capacity and forcing us to increase wages and benefits to attract the diminishing pool of available workers. This would result in lower revenues and increased manufacturing costs, which would adversely affect gross margins. Recent changes in the PRC’s labor law restrict our ability to reduce its workforce in the event of an economic downturn. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for 10 years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Such employment contracts with qualifying workers would not be terminable if, for example, Deswell determined to downsize its workforce in the event of an economic downturn. Under the new law, downsizing by 20% or more may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. Deswell’s entire staff, who are employed to work exclusively within the PRC, is covered by the new law and thus, Deswell’s ability to adjust the size of its operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns has been curtailed. Accordingly, if Deswell faces future periods of decline in business activity generally or adverse economic periods specific to Deswell’s business, this new law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on Deswell’s results of operations and financial condition. Our customers are dependent on shipping companies for delivery of our products and interruptions to shipping could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Generally, we sell our products F.O.B. Hong Kong or F.O.B. China and our customers are responsible for the transportation of products from Hong Kong or China to their final destinations. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Protecting, seeking licenses for or asserting claims over, intellectual property could be costly. We usually rely on trade secrets, industry expertise and the sharing with us by our customers of their intellectual property. However, there can be no assurance that intellectual property that we use in our business does not violate rights in such property belonging to others. We may be notified that we are infringing patents, copyright 10 Table of Contents or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing alternatives or in obtaining licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our strategy has been to evaluate trade names and trademarks, and to consider seeking patents, where we believe that such trade names, trademarks or patents would be available and adequate to protect our rights to products or processes that we consider material to our business. To the extent we do seek to obtain trade names, trademarks or patents, we may be required to institute litigation in order to enforce them or other intellectual property rights to protect our business interests. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and could adversely affect sales, profitability and growth. Because our operations are international, we are subject to significant worldwide political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and have subsidiaries incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, Macao, Samoa and China. Our administrative and accounting office is located in Macao. We manufacture all of our products in China. As of March 31, 2008, approximately 73% of the net book value of our total identifiable fixed assets was located in China. We sell our products to customers principally in the United States, China, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Europe and Southeast Asia. Our international operations may be subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including: • changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies, • changes in international and domestic customs regulations, • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts, • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation, • difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations, and • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. Our loss of certain members of our senior management could cause disruptions in our business and harm our customer relationships thereby adversely affecting sales. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of • Richard Lau, our former Chief Executive Officer, who retired from this post in January 2007, and remains Chairman of our Board of Directors; • Franki S.F. Tse, our Chief Executive Officer, who in February 2007 succeeded Richard Lau; • C. P. Li, our Executive Director of Manufacturing and Administration for plastic products; • C. W. Leung, Executive Director of Engineering for Plastic Operations; • S. K. Lee, our Director of Administration and Marketing for Electronic Operations; and • M. C. Tam, our Director of Engineering and Manufacturing for Electronic Operations. Mr. Richard Lau, who retired as our Chief Executive Officer in February 2007, and Messrs. Li and Leung founded our company and have each played integral roles in the management, growth and development of our company in general and our plastic injection molding business in particular. They have developed and maintain relationships with several of our key customers in our plastic injection molding business. Mr. S. K. Lee and Mr. M. C. Tam founded our electronic products manufacturing business and have developed and continue to manage it since we acquired control of the business from them. We have no employment contracts with Messrs. Li, Leung, Lee and Tam and their loss would require us to find executives suitable to replace them, which could be difficult and 11 Table of Contents disruptive to our business. Customers with whom they have relationships may cease to deal with us or choose to use a competitor for a greater portion of their business, resulting in our loss of sales. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly which could impact our future earnings. Our results could be adversely affected if we have to comply with new environmental regulations. Our operations create some environmentally sensitive waste that may increase in the future depending on the nature of our manufacturing operations. The general issue of the disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Currently, relevant Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility which causes serious environmental problems. Although it has not been alleged that we have violated any current environmental regulations by China government officials, the Chinese government could amend its current environmental protection laws and regulations. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting our operations. In addition, we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation, which enables customers to return a product at the end of its useful life and charge us with financial and other responsibility for environmentally safe collection, recycling, treatment and disposal. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our electronic products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS). The labeling provisions of similar legislation in China went into effect on March 1, 2007. Consequently, many suppliers of products sold into the EU countries have required their suppliers to be compliant with the new directive. Many of these customers in our electronic division have adopted this approach and have required our full compliance. Though we have devoted a significant amount of resources and effort planning and executing our RoHS program, it is possible that some of our products might be incompatible with such regulations. In such event, we could experience the loss of revenue, damaged reputation, diversion of resources, monetary penalties, and legal action. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we currently do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on us. Power shortages in China could affect our business. We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China, including areas where our manufacturing facilities are located, have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages and in relation to this we currently have a backup power system. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice of it. Any power shortage, brownout or blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. The concentration of share ownership in our Chairman of the Board and members of senior management may allow them to control, and influence substantially, the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval if such individuals acted together. Our Chairman of the Board, Richard Lau, and members of our senior management consisting of C. P. Li and C. W. Leung, each of whom are also members of our board of directors, beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 28% of our shares at June 30, 2008. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control, and they can substantially influence, the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Deswell, or causing a change in control of Deswell that may not be favored by our other shareholders. 12 Table of Contents In the course of preparing our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting was identified. If we fail to implement, achieve and maintain an effective system of internal controls, and as a result of this material weakness or others that may be identified, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely impacted. We became subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, which required us to include a management report containing an assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report. Beginning with the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, we are also required to include an attestation and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting of our independent registered public accounting firm. In preparing our consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting was identified, as defined in the standards established by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. A material weakness is defined as a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that result or results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of a company’s financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The material weakness identified related to the process we used to determine the valuation of work in progress and finished goods inventories in our plastic manufacturing operations. Because of the material weakness, management has concluded that, as of March 31, 2008, our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective. This failure and any failure in the future to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on our business. Such noncompliance could result in perceptions of our business among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others being adversely affected. Our remediation plan, consisting of the redesign of the process we are using may not adequately address the identified material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and we may not be able to attract additional qualified financial, auditing and compliance personnel to assist us in implementing the remediation plan effectively and maintaining compliance programs. If our remediation plan is inadequate to remediate the identified material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, our future financial statements could contain errors that may be undetected. For additional information, please see Item 15. “Controls and Procedures” in this Report. Potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations and in the case of FASB’s pronouncement regarding the expensing of stock options have adversely impacted, and will in the future, adversely impact our financial results. Deswell prepares its financial statements in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles of the United States of America “US GAAP”. A change in these accounting principles and policies, especially as interpreted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq Stock Market, may have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have increased general and administrative costs. The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s recent change to mandate the expensing of stock options require us to record charges to earnings for stock option grants to employees and directors have adversely affected our financial results. As required, we implemented the new pronouncement effective on April 1, 2006 and the impact of that implementation has been reflected in our financial results beginning with for the first quarter of 2007, i.e., the quarter ended June 30, 2006 Our board’s ability to amend our charter without shareholder approval could have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control. As permitted by the law of the British Virgin Islands, our Memorandum and Articles of Association, which are the terms used in the British Virgin Islands for a corporation’s charter and bylaws, may be amended by our board of directors without shareholder approval provided that a majority of our independent directors do not vote against the amendment. This includes amendments to increase or reduce our authorized capital stock or to create from time to time and issue one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations organized in the United States). Our board’s ability to amend our charter documents without shareholder approval, including its ability to create and issue preference shares, could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Deswell, including a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over the then current market price. 13 Table of Contents Our exemptions from certain of the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act limits the protections and information afforded to investors. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt or excluded from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months); and • Regulation FD, the SEC’s rules regulating disclosure of information by publicly traded companies and other issuers and requiring that when an issuer discloses material nonpublic information to certain individuals or entities such as stock analysts, or holders of the issuer’s securities who may trade on the basis of the information, the issuer must make public disclosure of that information. In addition, because we are a foreign private issuer, certain of the corporate governance standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market that are applied to domestic companies having securities included on The Nasdaq Stock Market are not applicable to us. For example, as a foreign private issuer organized under the law of the British Virgin Islands, we may follow our home company practice in lieu of some of the provisions of NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rule 4350. Accordingly, as the law of the British Virgin Islands does not prohibit us from doing so and since our practices are in compliance with our Memorandum and Articles of Association, we follow our home company practices with respect to the following Nasdaq Market Place rules: • Rule 4350(c)(1): A majority of our Board of Directors are not “independent” directors within the definition of “independent director” in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4200(a)(15); • Rule 4350(c)(2): Our independent directors do not meet in executive session; • Rule 4350(c)(3): Our board does not have a compensation committee; • Rule 4350(c)(4): Nominees for appointment as our directors are not selected or recommended by (i) a majority of our independent directors, or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Because of these exemptions or exclusions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States or with securities included on The NASDAQ Stock Market. 14 Table of Contents 