D. Risk Factors The following is a brief discussion of those distinctive or special characteristics of our operations and industry which may have a material impact on, or constitute risk factors in respect of, our future financial performance. Exploration and Development Risks We are engaged in the acquisition, exploration, exploration management, development and sale of mineral properties, with the primary aim of developing them to a stage where they can be exploited at a profit. Our property interests are in the exploration stage only, with the exception of the Petaquilla Property, and are without a known body of commercial ore. Accordingly, there is little likelihood that we will realize any profits in the short to medium term. Any profitability in the future from our business will be dependent upon locating mineral reserves, which itself is subject to numerous risk factors. The business of exploring for minerals and mining involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. In developing our mineral deposits, we will be subjected to an array of complex economic factors and accordingly there is no assurance that a positive feasibility study or any projected results contained in a feasibility study of a mineral deposit will be attained. Technical considerations, delays in obtaining governmental approvals, inability to obtain financing or other factors could cause delays in developing properties. Such delays could materially adversely affect our financial performance. - 13 - The business of mining is subject to a variety of risks such as cave-ins and other accidents, flooding, environmental hazards, the discharge of toxic chemicals, and other hazards. Such occurrences may delay production, increase production costs or result in liability. We will obtain insurance in amounts that we consider to be adequate to protect ourselves against certain risks of mining and processing. However, we may become subject to liability for hazards against which we cannot insure ourselves or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. In particular, we are not insured for environmental liability or earthquake damage. In order to develop the Petaquilla Property, located in Panama, it will be necessary to build the necessary infrastructure facilities, including electricity, transportation, etc., the costs of which could be substantial. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2002, we recorded a write-down of $32,628,433 in respect of our Petaquilla Property as a result of depressed copper prices making development of the Petaquilla Property uneconomical at that time. Recent significant increases in metal commodity prices may not be sustainable. They may not be reliable as indicators of future consistent realizable values, should any of PTQ’s mineral deposits reach commercial production. Estimates of Reserves, Mineral Deposits and Production Costs Although the ore reserve and mineral deposit figures included herein, most of which, as noted, are not compliant with National Instrument Policy 43-101, have been carefully prepared by us, or, in some instances have been prepared, reviewed or verified by independent mining experts, these amounts are estimates only and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of minerals from ore reserves will in fact be realized or that an identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Further development, drilling and other engineering analysis is required in order to have any of PTQ’s reserves classified as proven resources. Estimates of reserves, mineral deposits and production costs can also be affected by such factors as permitting regulations and requirements, weath er, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results. Short term factors relating to ore reserves, such as the need for orderly development of ore bodies or the processing of new or different grades, may also have an adverse effect on mining operations and on the results of operations. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions. Material changes in ore reserves, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of projects. Ore reserves are reported as general indicators of mine life. Reserves should not be interpreted as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of current or future operations. Risks of Development, Construction and Mining Operations Our ability to meet timing and cost estimates for properties cannot be assured. Technical considerations, delays in obtaining governmental approvals, inability to obtain financing or other factors could cause delays in developing properties. Such delays could materially adversely affect our financial performance. The business of mining is subject to a variety of risks such as cave-ins and other accidents, flooding, environmental hazards, the discharge of toxic chemicals and other hazards. Such occurrences may delay production, increase production costs or result in liability. We will obtain insurance in amounts that we consider to be adequate to protect ourselves against certain risks of mining and processing. However, we may become subject to liability for hazards against which we cannot insure ourselves or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. In particular, we are not insured for environmental liability or earthquake damage. In order to develop the Petaquilla Property, it will be necessary to build the necessary infrastructure facilities, including, electricity, transportation, etc., the costs of which could be substantial. - 14 - Expanded Panama Canal Watershed Could Affect Development On August 30, 1999, the Government of Panama passed legislation which significantly expands the size of the Panama Canal Watershed in general and, in particular, establishes an overlap of 2,885 of the 13,600 hectares comprising the Petaquilla concession. It is possible that the future construction of dams within the watershed area could negatively affect the development of the Petaquilla Property. In late April 2006, the Government of Panama indicated they will introduce legislation to repeal their earlier law on expanding the size of the Panama Canal Watershed, which includes the aforementioned overlap. There is no guarantee such repeal legislation will ultimately be passed by the Government of Panama. Title Matters While we have diligently investigated title to all mineral exploration concessions and, to the best of our knowledge, title to such properties is in good standing, this should not be construed as a guarantee of title. Conflicts of Interest Certain of our directors are directors of other reporting companies or have significant shareholdings in other mineral resource companies and, to the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which we may participate, our directors may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of our directors, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such a participation or such terms. In appropriate cases we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. In accordance with the laws of the Province of British Columbia, our directors are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the bes t interests of PTQ. In determining whether or not we will participate in a particular program and the interest therein to be acquired by it, the directors will primarily consider the potential benefits to PTQ, the degree of risk to which we may be exposed and our financial position at that time. Other than as indicated, we have no other procedures or mechanisms to deal with conflicts of interest. Currency Fluctuations We maintain our accounts in Canadian dollars. Our operations in Panama may make us subject to foreign currency fluctuations. Panama's currency, the Balboa, is at parity with the U.S. dollar. Exchange transactions are allowed in U.S. dollars and, as a result, foreign currency fluctuations will only be material for us to the extent that fluctuations between the Canadian and U.S. dollar are material. We do not at present plan, nor do we plan in the future, to engage in foreign currency transactions to hedge any exchange rate risks. Additional Funding Requirements We have not generated cash flow from operations in the past and cash flow is not expected in the next few years to satisfy our operational requirements and cash commitments. In the past, we have relied on sales of equity securities to meet most of our cash requirements, together with project management fees, property payments and sales or joint ventures of properties. There can be no assurance that funding from these sources will be sufficient in the future to satisfy our operational requirements and cash commitments. - 15 - We do not presently have sufficient financial resources to undertake all of our planned exploration and development programs. The development of our properties depends upon our ability to obtain financing through any or all of the joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the required financing. Failure to obtain additional financing on a timely basis could cause us to forfeit our interest in our properties and reduce or terminate our operations on such properties. Accordingly, in their report on the consolidated financial statements for the period ended January 31, 2006, our independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph regarding concerns about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements contain additional note disclosures describing the circumstances that lead to this disclosure by our independent auditors. In particular, although we have entered into an agreement whereby Teck Cominco Limited can earn 50% of our interest in the Ley Petaquilla Property, by funding the feasibility study and our capital costs, there is no assurance that Teck Cominco Limited will elect to participate or to continue to participate in such property, in which event we will be required to finance all future exploration and development, or seek another partner. Pursuant to our agreement with Teck Cominco Limited, Teck Cominco Limited can, at any time prior to a property reaching "commercial" production, elect to abandon and surrender its interest in any property. Requirements of Ley Petaquilla Our operations in Panama are governed primarily by Law No. 9 of the Legislative Assembly of Panama (the "Ley Petaquilla"), a project-specific piece of legislation enacted in February 1997 to deal with the orderly development of the Petaquilla Property. The Ley Petaquilla granted a mineral exploration and exploitation concession to Minera Petaquilla, S.A. Under the Ley Petaquilla, Minera Petaquilla, S.A. was required to begin mine development by May 2001; however, Minera Petaquilla, S.A. can defer commencing development operations for one month for every month that the price of copper remains below $1.155 per pound for up to a further five years (i.e. until May 2006 at the latest). The Ley Petaquilla also requires Minera Petaquilla, S.A. to make a minimum investment of US $400 million in the development of the Petaquilla Property. During the fiscal year e nded January 31, 2002, we recorded a write-down of $32,628,433 in respect of our Petaquilla Property as a result of depressed copper prices making development of the Petaquilla Property uneconomical at that time. PTQ, through our wholly-owned subsidiary Georecursos, owns 52% of Minera Petaquilla. Minnova (Panama) Inc. (“Minnova”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Inmet Mining Corporation (“Inmet”), owns the remaining 48% of Minera Petaquilla, a company formed during 1997 to own the Ley Petaquilla mineral concession in Panama. Pursuant to the contract law under which the Petaquilla concession was granted by the Government of the Republic of Panama, PTQ has delivered a phased Mine Development Plan to the Government of Panama. This phased Mine Development Plan was approved in September 2005. Refer also to “Item 4 – Information on our Company – A. History and Development of our Company”. This approval resulted in the extension of the land tenure for an initial 20 year period commencing September 2005, subject to PTQ meeting certain other development and operational conditions on an ongoing basis. Terms of the land tenure have two additional 20 year terms that are also subject to PTQ meeting certain other ongoing development and operational conditions. Teck Cominco Limited (“Teck”) has an option to acquire 50% of PTQ’s interest in Minera Petaquilla, which would result in Teck having a 26% interest in Minera Petaquilla. In order for Teck to acquire the 26% interest, it is required to: - 16 - i) Fund 52% of the continuing exploration expenditures, as defined, of Minera Petaquilla, with Minnova to fund its 48% share, until such time as Teck either acquires its interest or its interest is terminated. ii) Fund 100% of and complete a final feasibility study, as defined, for the property and deliver such study by January 21, 1998 (completed). iii) Arrange project financing for Minera Petaquilla for completion of development of the Ley Petaquilla property and, if necessary, fund 52% (Minnova to fund 48%) of any shortfall in the total project funding requirement in excess of arranged project financing. Teck is committed to annually make a final commitment respecting development of the concession and to deliver an update to the feasibility study of the concession. The requirement to make a final commitment or give notice of unfavorable economic conditions within 90 days of delivery of the final feasibility study applies to all subsequent annual anniversaries. Failure to make such a commitment or deliver a notice shall result in the termination of Teck’s right to acquire an interest in Minera Petaquilla. In April 2005, PTQ and Inmet agreed to waive for one year Teck’s obligation to make a final commitment respecting development of the concession and to deliver an updated feasibility study. This waiver does not affect Teck’s obligation to make a final commitment respecting development of the concession and to deliver an updated feasibility study in 2006. Upon Teck making a final commitment, Minnova is required to deliver a final commitment to participate in the development of the project or it will be required to dispose of its interest in Minera Petaquilla. Minnova is then required to either offer to sell its interest in the concession or accept an 8% net profit interest, as defined, in the project. The offer to sell its interest shall be made first to PTQ and then to Teck at a price to be determined by Minnova. In the event that neither PTQ nor Teck chooses to acquire Minnova’s interest, Minnova shall be entitled to seek an independent purchaser of its interest on terms no more favorable than those offered to PTQ and Teck. Either PTQ or Minnova (the Proposer) may at any time give notice to the other parties of its intention to proceed with development of the concession in accordance with the most recently delivered Teck feasibility study. Upon receipt of such notice, Teck has 50 days in which to make a final commitment to develop the project. The other party, PTQ or Minnova (the Recipient), has 60 days from the receipt of such notice to commit to develop the project. If the Recipient has not agreed to develop the project, the Proposer may, within 70 days of the proposal, elect to exercise the “Shotgun Offer,” as defined, and either sell its interest or acquire the Recipient’s interest in Minera Petaquilla, for cash, based on the value of Minera Petaquilla as determined in accordance with the provisions of the agreement. The Recipient has 15 days from receipt of the Shotgun Offer to agree either to sell its interest or to acquire the Proposer’s interest as applicable, and in the event that the Recipient does not take action within the 15-day period, it will thereafter be deemed to have agreed to sell its interest in Minera Petaquilla. If Minnova sells its interest, pursuant to the Shotgun Offer, PTQ shall pay Minnova 48% of the value of Minera Petaquilla. If PTQ sells its interest, pursuant to the Shotgun Offer, it shall receive 29% of the value of Minera Petaquilla on condition that, in the event that Teck’s interest in the concession is terminated, PTQ shall receive an additional 23% of the value of Minera Petaquilla. - 17 - If Teck’s interest in the concession is not terminated and PTQ sells its interest, pursuant to the Shotgun Offer, PTQ shall not be entitled to receive any further amount, in excess of the 29% of the value received on account of the sale of its interest in Minera Petaquilla. Upon exercise of the Shotgun Offer, Teck has 130 days in which to deliver a final commitment for development of the concession or its interest shall be terminated. Teck’s interest in the concession shall terminate on the earlier of: i) Teck electing to terminate its interest provided it has delivered its final feasibility study, or ii) Teck’s failure to deliver a final commitment requesting development of the concession and to deliver an updated feasibility study. In the event that Teck’s interest is terminated, Teck shall retain a net profit royalty interest in the project at a rate to be determined. The Government of Panama passed legislation which significantly expands the size of the Panama Canal Watershed in general and, in particular, establishes an overlap of part of the Petaquilla concession. It is possible that future construction of dams within the watershed area could negatively affect the development of the Ley Petaquilla property. In late April 2006, the Government of Panama indicated they will introduce legislation to repeal their earlier law on expanding the size of the Panama Canal Watershed, which includes the aforementioned overlap. There is no guarantee such repeal legislation will ultimately be passed by the Government of Panama. Molejon Property – Panama In June 2005, the shareholders of Minera Petaquilla agreed to separate the gold deposit and other precious metal mineral deposits that might be developed within the Ley Petaquilla mineral concession from the copper mineral deposits within the Ley Petaquilla mineral concession. The agreement provides for PTQ, through Petaquilla Gold, S.A., to own a 100% interest in the Molejon gold deposit, as well as all other gold and precious metal mineral deposits that might be developed within the Ley Petaquilla mineral concession, subject to a graduated 1% - 5% Net Smelter Return, based on the future gold price at the time of production, payable to Teck and Minova as to 35.135% and 64.865% respectively. Approval of the overall phased Ley Petaquilla Mine Development Plan was obtained in September 2005. The Molejon gold mineral deposit is part of the Ley Petaquilla concession lands. Transfer of title to PTQ of the Molejon gold mineral deposit, as well as the other rights as described above, is underway. We intend to focus the first phase of the mine development plan on the Molejon gold deposit. We have begun further exploration and development work with the view of moving toward completion of a feasibility study on the Molejon gold deposit. In addition, we intend to perform further exploration on other identified gold targets within the Ley Petaquilla concession, and those within our wholly-owned properties surrounding the Ley Petaquilla concession. Refer to “Item 4 - Information on Our Company - D. Property, Plant and Equipment” for further details on planned development activities. History of Net Losses; Accumulated Deficit; Lack of Revenue From Operations We have incurred net losses to date. Our deficit as of January 31, 2006, was $51,558,632. We have not yet had any revenue from the exploration activities on our properties. The Molejon Property is our first property development activity. Even if we undertake development activity on any of our properties, including the Molejon Property, we may continue to incur losses beyond the period of commencement of such activity. There is no certainty that we will produce revenue, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2002, we recorded a write-down of $32,628,433 in respect of our Petaquilla Property as a result of depressed copper prices making development of the Petaquilla Property uneconomical at that time. Recent significant increases in metal commodity prices may not be sustai nable. They may not be reliable as indicators of future consistent realizable values, should any of PTQ’s mineral deposits reach commercial production. - 18 - Limited Experience with Development-Stage Mining Operations We have limited experience in placing resource properties into production and our ability to do so will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise. There can be no assurance that we will have available to us the necessary expertise when and if we place our resource properties into production. There also exists significant risks on being successful at recruiting experienced employees or contractors to allow us to move forward in pursuing development-stage mining operations. Stock Subject to Penny Stock Rules Our capital stock would be classified as "penny stock" as defined in Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). In response to perceived abuse in the penny stock market generally, the 1934 Act was amended in 1990 to add new requirements in connection with penny stocks. In connection with effecting any transaction in a penny stock, a broker or dealer must give the customer a written risk disclosure document that (a) describes the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading, (b) describes the broker's or dealer's duties to the customer and the rights and remedies available to such customer with respect to violations of such duties, (c) describes the dealer market, including "bid" and "ask" prices for penny stock and the significance of the s pread between the bid and ask prices, (d) contains a toll-free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary histories of brokers and dealers, and (e) defines significant terms used in the disclosure document or the conduct of trading in penny stocks. In addition, the broker-dealer must provide to a penny stock customer a written monthly account statement that discloses the identity and number of shares of each penny stock held in the customer's account, and the estimated market value of such shares. The extensive disclosure and other broker-dealer compliance related to penny stocks may result in reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for such stocks, thus limiting the ability of the holder to sell such stock. Competition Significant and increasing competition exists for the limited number of mineral property acquisition opportunities available. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than us, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mineral properties on terms we consider acceptable. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our exploration and acquisition programs will yield any new reserves or result in any commercial mining operation. Mineral Prices The mining industry in general is intensely competitive and there is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, a profitable market will exist for the sale of same. Factors beyond our control may affect the marketability of any substances discovered. The prices of gold and copper have experienced volatile and significant price movements over short periods of time and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations (specifically, the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies), interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns (such as the development of gold coin programs), speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The supply of and demand for gold and copper is affec ted by various factors, including political events, economic conditions and production costs in major producing regions and governmental policies with respect to holdings by a nation or its citizens. There can be no assurance that the prices of gold and copper will be such that our properties can be mined at a profit. - 19 - Foreign Countries and Regulatory Requirements Currently our only properties are located in Panama. Consequently, we are subject to certain risks associated with foreign ownership, including currency fluctuations, inflation, political instability and political risk. Mineral exploration and mining activities in foreign countries may be affected in varying degrees by political stability and government regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, restriction of earnings distribution, taxation laws, expropriation of property, environmental legislation, water use and mine safety. In particular, the status of Panama as a developing country may make it mor e difficult for us to obtain any required production financing for our properties from senior lending institutions. Environmental and Other Regulatory Requirements Our current or future operations, including development activities and commencement of production on our properties, require permits from various governmental authorities and such operations are and will be subject to laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety, community services and other matters. Companies engaged in the development and operation of mines and related facilities generally experience increased costs, and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. There can be no assurance that approvals and permits required to commence production on our various properties will be obtained. Additional permits and studies, whi ch may include environmental impact studies conducted before permits can be obtained, may be necessary prior to operation of the properties in which we have interests and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to commence construction, development or operation of mining facilities at these properties on terms which enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. Our potential mining and processing operations and exploration activities in Panama are subject to various federal and provincial laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety, community services and other matters. Such operations and exploration activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies and may require that we obtain permits from various governmental agencies. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all material laws and regulations which currently apply to our activities. There can be no assurance, however, that all permits we may require for construction of mining facilities and conduct of mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms or that s uch laws and regulations would not have a material adverse effect on any mining project we might undertake. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. - 20 - Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on us and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. To the best of our knowledge, we are currently operating in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. Panama Political Risks Mineral exploration and mining activities in Panama may be affected in varying degrees by political conditions and government regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. Dividends All of our available funds will be invested to finance the growth of our business and, therefore, investors cannot expect and should not anticipate receiving a dividend on our common shares in the foreseeable future. Our Officers and Directors Resident Outside U.S.; Potential Unenforceability of Civil Liabilities and Judgments PTQ and our officers and directors are residents of countries other than the United States, and all of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or enforce in the United States against such persons judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws or state securities laws. We believe that a judgment of a United States court predicated solely upon civil liability under United States securities laws would probably be enforceable in Canada if the United States court in which the judgment was obtained has a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. However, there is doubt whether an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance on the basis of liability predicated solely upon such laws. If We are Unable to Successfully Develop and Subsequently Generate Sufficient Cash Flow from Our Properties, We Could be Treated as a Passive Foreign Investment Company for U.S. Tax Purposes, Possibly Resulting in Additional Taxes to Our U.S. Stockholders and Less Liquidity for the Stock We, as a foreign corporation with U.S. stockholders, could potentially be treated as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") for U.S. tax purposes. U.S. stockholders owning shares of a PFIC can be subject to adverse tax consequences. In general, we would be considered a PFIC if: 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income such as dividends and interest; or, the average percentage of our assets (by value) during the taxable year which produce passive income or which are held for production of same is at least 50%. A U.S. stockholder owning shares of a PFIC, who does not make certain elections for tax purposes, is subject to an additional tax and to an interest charge based on the value of deferral of tax for the period during which the common shares of the PFIC are owned. Also, a gain realized on the disposition of comm on shares of the PFIC would be treated as ordinary income rather than capital gains. If U.S. stockholders are subject to adverse tax consequences related to their ownership of our stock, they might be less willing to acquire the stock, which could result in reduced market activity and liquidity for our stock. - 21 - 