Risk Factors The following is a brief discussion of those distinctive or special characteristics of our operations and industry, which may have a material impact on, or constitute risk factors in respect of, our financial performance. However, there may be additional risks unknown to us and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, that could turn out Form 20-F_Thirteen Months Ended 2013 Jun 30 Page 13 to be material. These risks, either individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect our business and financial results. We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The occurrence of any of the following events could harm us. If these events occur, the trading price of our common shares could decline, and investors may lose part or even all of their investment. Mining operations and projects are vulnerable to supply chain disruptions and our operations and development projects could be adversely affected by shortages of, as well as lead times to deliver, strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment or metallurgical plant equipment. Our operations and development projects could be adversely affected by shortages of, as well as lead times to deliver, strategic spares, critical consumables and processing equipment. In the past, we and other gold mining companies have experienced shortages in critical consumables, particularly as production capacity in the global mining industry has expanded in response to increased demand for commodities, and we have experienced increased delivery times for these items. These shortages have also resulted in unanticipated increases in the price of certain of these items. Shortages of strategic spares, critical consumables or mining equipment, which could occur in the future, could result in production delays and production shortfalls, and increases in prices result in an increase in both operating costs and the capital expenditure to maintain and develop mining operations. We and other gold mining companies, individually, have limited influence over manufacturers and suppliers of these items. In certain cases there are only limited suppliers for certain strategic spares, critical consumables and processing equipment and they command superior bargaining power relative to us, or we could at times face limited supply or increased lead time in the delivery of such items. If we experience shortages, or increased lead times in delivery of strategic spares, critical consumables or processing equipment our results of operations and our financial condition could be adversely affected. We face uncertainty and risks in our exploration and project evaluation activities. Exploration activities are speculative in nature and project evaluation activities necessary to determine whether a viable mining operation exists or can be developed are often unproductive. These activities also often require substantial expenditure to establish the presence, and to quantify the extent and grades (metal content), of mineralized material through exploration drilling. Once mineralization is discovered it can take several years to determine whether adequate ore reserves exist. During this time, the economic feasibility of production may change owing to fluctuations in factors that affect revenue, as well as cash and other operating costs, including: future metal and other commodity prices; anticipated tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of the ore to be mined and processed; anticipated recovery rates of gold from the ore; and anticipated capital expenditure and cash operating costs. These estimates depend upon the data available and the assumptions made at the time the relevant estimate is made. Resource estimates are not precise calculations and depend on the interpretation of limited information on the location, shape and continuity of the occurrence and on the available sampling results. Further exploration and studies can result in new data becoming available that may change previous resource estimates which will impact upon both the technical and economic viability of production of the relevant mining project. Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of resources resulting in revisions to previous resource estimates. These revisions could impact depreciation and amortization rates, asset-carrying values provisions for closedown, restoration and environmental clean-up costs. These estimates depend upon the data available and the assumptions made at the time the relevant estimate is made. We undertake revisions to our resource estimates based upon actual exploration and production results, new information on geology and fluctuations in production, operating and other costs, which could adversely affect the life-of-mine plans and consequently the total value of our mining asset base. Resource restatements could negatively affect our results, financial condition and prospects, as well as our reputation. The increased demand for gold and other commodities, combined with a declining rate of discovery, has resulted in existing reserves being depleted at an accelerated rate in recent years. We, therefore, face intense competition for the acquisition of attractive mining properties. Form 20-F_Thirteen Months Ended 2013 Jun 30 Page 14 From time to time, we evaluate the acquisition of exploration properties and operating mines, either as stand-alone assets or as part of companies. Our decisions to acquire these properties have historically been based on a variety of factors including estimates of and assumptions regarding the extent of resources, cash and other operating costs, gold prices and projected economic returns and evaluations of existing or potential liabilities associated with the relevant property and our operations and how these factors may change in the future. All of these factors are uncertain and could have an impact upon revenue, cash and other operating issues, as well as the uncertainties related to the process used to estimate resources. As a result of these uncertainties, the exploration programs and acquisitions we engage in may not result in the expansion or replacement of current production with new resources or operations. Our operating results and financial condition are directly related to the success of our exploration and acquisition efforts and our ability to replace or increase existing resources. If we are not able to maintain or increase our resources, our results of operations and our financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. We face many risks related to the development of our mining projects that may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. The profitability of mining companies depends, in part, on the actual costs of developing and operating mines, which may differ significantly from estimates determined at the time a relevant mining project was approved. The development of mining projects may also be subject to unexpected problems and delays that could increase the cost of development and the ultimate operating cost of the relevant project. Our decision to develop a mineral property is based on estimates made as to the expected or anticipated project economic returns. These estimates are based on assumptions regarding: future gold prices; anticipated tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of ore to be mined and processed; anticipated recovery rates of gold extracted from the ore; and anticipated capital expenditures and cash operating costs. Actual cash operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those anticipated by such estimates. There are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of an extension to an existing mine, or in the development and construction of any new mine. In addition to those discussed above, these uncertainties include the: timing and cost of the construction of mining and processing facilities, which can be considerable; availability and cost of skilled labor, power, water and transportation facilities; need to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental permits and the time to obtain such permits; and availability of funds to finance construction and development activities. New mining operations could experience unexpected problems and delays during development, construction and mine start-up. In addition, delays in the commencement of mineral production could occur. Finally, operating cost and capital expenditure estimates could fluctuate considerably as a result of changes in the prices of commodities consumed in the construction and operation of mining projects. Accordingly, our future development activities may not result in the expansion or replacement of current production with new production, or one or more new production sites or facilities may be less profitable than currently anticipated or may not be profitable at all. Our operating results and financial conditions are directly related to the success of our project developments. A failure in our ability to develop and operate mining projects in accordance with, or in excess of, expectations could negatively affect our results of operations and our financial condition and prospects. We may require additional funding in order to continue our operations. We have been producing since January 8, 2010, when we achieved commercial production at our Molejon gold property. Considering our increase in cash margin, our improvements in throughput and production capacity at our Molejon gold processing plant, the risk of our requiring additional funding in order to continue our operations Form 20-F_Thirteen Months Ended 2013 Jun 30 Page 15 has reduced. Regardless, different sources of funding, depending on market conditions and the appetite of investors to increase their participation in our company’s business or other projects, may become available and could be considered. However, there can be no assurance that funding from these sources will be sufficient in the future to satisfy our operational requirements, debt repayments and cash commitments. This is dependent on market expectations and on our performance, production and results. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. Our audited consolidated financial statements for the thirteen months ended June 30, 2013, have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes that we will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. As of June 30, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $128,020,760 (2012 - $123,419,069) and a working capital deficiency of $85,608,791 (2012 - $41,775,106). Since previously noted as a subsequent event to our filing of our 2013 fiscal year second quarter consolidated financial statements and corresponding Management’s Discussion and Analysis, which disclosed a shortfall of ounces delivered to Deutsche Bank for the month of December 2012, defined as a default under the terms of the Forward Gold and Silver Agreements and, by consequence, the Convertible Loan Agreement, we have been progressively remediating this default situation, by delivering additional metal or making additional cash payments to Deutsche Bank. Full settlement of these overdue deliveries was completed by a cash payment to Deutsche Bank, on September 13, 2013, for all ounces due up to August 31, 2013. Aside from these recently settled delivery defaults, we have been notified by Deutsche Bank of certain other conditions of default, non-financially related, and Deutsche Bank has consequently reserved its rights under the Forward Gold and Silver Agreement and Convertible Loan Agreement until full remediation by us of such conditions of default. Our management and Deutsche Bank have been jointly working on the required remediation actions and our management expects that full compliance with the covenants of the subject agreements should be achieved during our second quarter of our 2014 fiscal year and, therefore, does not expect that Deutsche Bank will call for an early repayment of its open debt balances if we promptly remediate the said outstanding conditions of default. Nevertheless, in accordance with IAS 1, we are required to re-classify all of the Deutsche Bank debt as short-term liabilities and continue to do so for as long as the conditions of default are not remediated. The re-classification of Deutsche Bank debt as current liabilities, despite management's confidence that all conditions of default will be remedied during the first half of our 2014 fiscal year, raises doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern if we are called upon to settle early all of the Deutsche Bank liabilities. Despite our favourable assets impairment test and positive cash flow budget for our 2014 fiscal year, our ability to continue as a going concern may be dependent on remediation of the remaining non-financial default conditions. As also disclosed in previous filings, we are discussing alternative financing arrangements with several parties and believe that such discussions will result in our obtaining sufficient liquidity to fund our long-term development plan, alleviate the current working capital deficit and pay out Deutsche Bank's outstanding debt. However, there is no assurance that such financing will be obtained or obtained on commercially favorable terms. Our audited consolidated financial statements for the thirteen months ended June 30, 2013, do not give effect to any adjustment which would be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern and, therefore, be required to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in other than the normal course of business and at amounts different from those reflected in the audited consolidated financial statements for the thirteen months ended June 30, 2013. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business. Although this risk could affect the our financial situation, as disclosed in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements for the thirteen months ended June 30, 2013, it has been managed appropriately making possible that all amounts owing for our Forward Gold and Silver Purchase Agreements were paid on September 13, 2013. We have been discussing alternative financing arrangements with several parties. Due to new acquisitions and our growth strategy, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. A significant increase in our debt levels may have important consequences for us, including, but not limited to the following: Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes or to fund future operations may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all; Form 20-F_Thirteen Months Ended 2013 Jun 30 Page 16 A significant amount of our operating cash flow is dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby diminishing funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and for other purposes; Increasing our vulnerability to current and future adverse economic and industry conditions; A substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or increase in our expenses could make it more difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements, which could force us to modify our operations; Our leveraged capital structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage by hindering our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions or by making us vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy in general; We may have to offer debt or equity securities on terms that may not be favorable to us or to our shareholders; Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in our business and our industry; and Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal or interest due in respect of our indebtedness. We face many risks related to our operations that may adversely affect our cash flows and overall profitability. Gold mining is susceptible to numerous events that may have an adverse impact on our mining business, our ability to produce gold and meet our production targets. These events include, but are not limited to: environmental hazards, including discharge of metals, pollutants or hazardous chemicals; industrial accidents; fires; labour disputes; mechanical breakdowns; electrical power interruptions; encountering unexpected geological formations; unanticipated ground conditions; ingresses of water; process water shortages; failure of mining pit slopes, water dams, waste stockpiles and tailings dam walls; legal and regulatory restrictions and changes to such restrictions; safety-related stoppages; other natural phenomena, such as floods, droughts or inclement weather conditions, potentially exacerbated by climate change. Mineral prices can fluctuate dramatically and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of gold and the market price for gold fluctuates widely. These fluctuations are caused by numerous factors beyond our control including: speculative positions taken by investors or traders in gold; changes in the demand for gold as an investment; changes in the demand for gold used in jewelery and for other industrial uses, including as a result of prevailing economic conditions; changes in the supply of gold from production, disinvestment, scrap and hedging; financial market expectations regarding the rate of inflation; strength of the US dollar (the currency in which the gold price trades internationally) relative to other currencies; changes in interest rates; Form 20-F_Thirteen Months Ended 2013 Jun 30 Page 17 actual or expected sales or purchases of gold by central banks and the International Monetary Fund; gold hedging and de-hedging by gold producers; global or regional political or economic events; and the cost of gold production in major gold producing countries. On October 4, 2013, the afternoon fixing price of gold on the London Bullion Market was $1,309.75 per ounce. The price of gold is often subject to sharp, short-term changes resulting from speculative activities. While the overall supply of and demand for gold can affect its market price, because of the considerable size of above-ground stocks of the metal in comparison to other commodities, these factors typically do not affect the gold price in the same manner or degree that the supply of and demand for other commodities tends to affect their market price. In addition, the recent shift in gold demand from physical demand to investment and speculative demand may exacerbate the volatility of gold prices. A sustained period of significant gold price volatility may adversely affect our ability to evaluate the feasibility of undertaking new capital projects or continuing existing operations or to make other long-term strategic decisions. If revenue from gold sales falls below the cost of production for an extended period, we may experience losses and be forced to curtail or suspend some or all of our capital projects or existing operations. In addition, we would have to assess the economic impact of low gold prices on our ability to recover any losses that may be incurred during that period and on our ability to maintain adequate cash reserves. We face risks related to operations in foreign countries. Currently our properties are located in Panama, Spain and Portugal. Panama is a country with a developing mining sector but with no other commercially producing mines. Consequently, we are subject to, and our mineral exploration and mining activities may be affected in varying degrees by, certain risks associated with foreign ownership including inflation, political instability, political conditions and government regulations. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Operations may be affected by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation, price controls, export controls, restriction of earnings distribution, taxation laws, expropriation of property, environmental legislation, water use, mine safety and renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits, and contracts. Failure to comply strictly with applicable laws, regulations and local practices relating to mineral rights applications and tenure could result in loss, reduction or expropriation of entitlements, or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners with carried or other interests. The occurrence of these various factors and uncertainties cannot be accurately predicted and could have an adverse effect on our operations or profitability. As part of our strategy to manage country risk, we continue to look to diversify our project portfolio. During fiscal 2012, a majority of our shareholders approved the acquisition of Iberian Resources Corp. ("Iberian"). Iberian owns 100% of the Lomero-Poyatos Project through its wholly-owned Spanish affiliate, Corporacion de Recursos Iberia S.L.U. The Lomero-Poyatos Project is located about 85 kilometers northeast of Seville, in the northeast part of the Iberian Pyrite Belt. Iberian also owns several other exploration licenses in Iberia through its wholly-owned Spanish and Portuguese affiliates Sulfuros Complejos Andalucia Mining S.L. and Almada Mining S.A. Pursuant to the NI 43-101 Technical Report on the Lomero-Poyatos Au-Cu-Pb-Zn Mine dated May 21, 2012, the Lomero-Poyatos Mine contains an estimated inferred mineral resource of 6.07Mt averaging 4.25 g/t of gold and 88.74 g/t of silver. The technical report was prepared by Behre Dolbear International Limited and the Qualified Person was Mr. Richard Fletcher, who is independent of us. This disclosure has been approved by Dr. Andrew Ramcharan, P.Eng., our Executive VP Corporate Development, also a Qualified Person under NI 43-101. The requirements of the Ley Petaquilla may have an adverse impact on us. Our operations in Panama are governed primarily by Law No. 9 of the Legislative Assembly of Panama (the “Ley Petaquilla”), a project-specific piece of legislation enacted in February 1997 to deal with the orderly development of the Cerro Petaquilla Concession. The Ley Petaquilla granted a mineral exploration and exploitation concession to Minera Petaquilla, S.A. (formerly named Minera Petaquilla, S.A. (“MPSA”)), a Panamanian company formed in 1997 to hold the Cerro Petaquilla Concession covering approximately 136 square kilometers in north-central Panama. Although we no longer hold an interest in the copper deposits therein, we continue to hold the rights to the Molejon gold deposit and, as the Cerro Petaquilla Concession encompasses this deposit, the Ley Petaquilla governs our exploration activities. Form 20-F_Thirteen Months Ended 2013 Jun 30 Page 18 The Ley Petaquilla contains fiscal and legal stability clauses necessary in order to obtain project financing and includes tax exemptions on income, dividends and imports. The Ley Petaquilla also provides for an increase in the annual available infrastructure tax credit, higher depreciation rates for depreciable assets which cannot be used in the infrastructure tax credit pool, and a favorable depletion allowance. In order to maintain the Cerro Petaquilla Concession in good standing, MPSA must pay to the Government of Panama an annual rental fee of $1.00 per hectare during the first five years of the concession, $2.50 per hectare in the ninth to the tenth years of the concession and $3.50 per hectare thereafter. Initially the annual rental was approximately $13,600 payable by MPSA and funded pro rata by its shareholders. The current annual rental is approximately $34,000. The concession was granted for a 20 year term with up to two 20 year extensions permitted, subject to the requirement to begin mine development and to make a minimum investment of $400 million in the development of the Cerro Petaquilla Concession. Under the Ley Petaquilla, MPSA was required to begin mine development by August 2001. However, MPSA was able to defer commencing development operations by one month for every month that the price of copper remained below $1.155 per pound for up to a further five years (i.e. until August 2006 at the latest). In September 2005, the multi-phase Petaquilla Mine Development Plan (the “Plan”) submitted to the Government of Panama by our Company and MPSA was approved by Ministerial Resolution. The Molejon gold mineral deposit forms part of the Cerro Petaquilla Concession and the first phase of the Plan focus on the advancement of the Molejon gold deposit by us as commenced in 2006. Subsequent phases of the Plan are the responsibility of MPSA. The Ley Petaquilla also requires MPSA to (i) deliver an environmental report to the General Directorate of Mineral Resources of the Ministry of Commerce and Industries (“MICI”) for evaluation; (ii) submit, prior to extraction, an environmental feasibility study specific to the project area in which the respective extraction will take place; (iii) submit annually a work plan comprising the projections and approximate costs for the respective year to the MICI; (iv) post letters of credit in support of required compliance and environmental protection guarantees; (v) annually pay surface canons; (vi) annually pay royalties for extracted minerals; (vii) annually present to the MICI detailed reports covering operations and employment and training; (viii) create and participate in the administration of a scholarship fund to finance studies and training courses or professional training for the inhabitants of the communities neighboring the Cerro Petaquilla Concession in the provinces of Coclé and Colon; and (ix) maintain all mining and infrastructure works and services of the project, always complying with the standards and regulations of general application in force that pertain to occupational safety, health and construction. For reference, a copy of Law No. 9, as passed by the Legislative Assembly of Panama on February 26, 1997, was provided with our Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2009, as Exhibit 4.V. Our operations are subject to environmental and other regulation. Our current or future operations, including development activities and commencement of production on our properties, require permits from various governmental authorities and such operations are and will be subject to laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety, community services and other matters. Companies engaged in the development and operation of mines and related facilities generally experience increased costs and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. Other than the Molejon gold mine, there can be no assurance that approvals and permits required to commence production on our various properties will be obtained. Additional permits and studies, which may include environmental impact studies conducted before permits can be obtained, may be necessary prior to operation of the properties in which we have interests and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to commence construction, development or operation of mining facilities at these properties on terms which enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. Our potential mining and processing operations and exploration activities in Panama are subject to various federal and provincial laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety, community services and other matters. Such operations and exploration activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies and may require that we obtain permits from various governmental agencies. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all material laws and regulations that currently apply to corporate activities. There can be no assurance, however, that all permits which may be required for construction of mining facilities and conduct of mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms or that such laws and regulations would not have a material adverse effect on any mining project that we might undertake. Form 20-F_Thirteen Months Ended 2013 Jun 30 Page 19 Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions there under, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on us and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reductions in levels of production at producing properties or abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. To the best of our knowledge, we are currently operating in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations except as to matters under mitigation as requested by the government of Panama. Our directors and officers may have conflicts of interest in connection with other mineral exploration and development companies. In the event that a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of our directors, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. In appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. In accordance with the laws of the Province of British Columbia, our directors are required to act honestly, in good faith and in our company’s best interests. In determining whether or not we will participate in a particular program and our interest therein, our directors primarily consider the potential benefits to us, the degree of risk to which we may be exposed and our financial position at that time. Other than as indicated, we have no other procedures or mechanisms to prevent conflicts of interest. Environmental protestors are present in Panama. Various independent environmental groups or individuals would like to prevent the operation of mining in Panama. Our operations could be significantly disrupted or suspended by activities such as protests or blockades that may be undertaken by such groups or individuals. Although these protests or blockades could happen, we have a contingency plan in place to ensure the continuity of our operations and activities at our Molejon mine. Our common shares are subject to penny stock rules, which could affect trading in our shares. Our common shares are classified as “penny stock” as defined in Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. In response to perceived abuse in the penny stock market generally, the Exchange Act was amended in 1990 to add new requirements in connection with penny stocks. In connection with effecting any transaction in a penny stock, a broker or dealer must give the customer a written risk disclosure document that (a) describes the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading, (b) describes the broker's or dealer's duties to the customer and the rights and remedies available to such customer with respect to violations of such duties, (c) describes the dealer market, including “bid” and “ask” prices for penny stock and the significance of the spread between the bid and ask prices, (d) contains a toll-free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary histories of brokers and dealers and (e) defines significant terms used in the disclosure document or the conduct of trading in penny stocks. In addition, the broker-dealer must provide to a penny stock customer a written monthly account statement that discloses the identity and number of shares of each penny stock held in the customer’s account and the estimated market value of such shares. The extensive disclosure and other broker-dealer compliance related to penny stocks may result in reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our common shares, thus limiting the ability of our shareholders to sell their shares. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us or our directors, controlling persons and officers. Our company, our officers and some of our directors are residents of countries other than the United States, and all of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or enforce in the United States against such persons judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws or state securities laws. We believe that a judgment of a United States court predicated solely upon civil liability under United States securities laws would probably be enforceable in Canada if the United States court in which the judgment was obtained has a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. However, there is doubt whether an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance on the basis of liability Form 20-F_Thirteen Months Ended 2013 Jun 30 Page 20 predicated solely upon such laws. If we have been or are characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. Holders may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. A non-U.S. corporation generally is considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any tax year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. We have not made a determination as to whether we are considered a PFIC for the current tax year or any prior tax years. In general, if we are a PFIC in any tax year in which a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10 – Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences”) owns our common shares, any gain recognized on a sale by such U.S. Holder of its common shares and any “excess distributions” (as specifically defined in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) paid to such U.S. Holder on its common shares must be ratably allocated to each day in such U.S. taxpayer’s holding period for the common shares. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to prior years of such U.S. Holder’s holding period for the common shares generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest tax applicable to ordinary income in each such prior year, and the U.S. taxpayer will be required to pay interest on the resulting tax liability for each such prior year, calculated as if such tax liability had been due in each such prior year. For more information, see “Item 10 – Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences—Passive Foreign Investment Company”. We face competition from companies with greater financial resources and operational capabilities. The mining industry is competitive in all of its phases. We face strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing, or capable of producing, precious and base metals. Many of these companies have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than our company. Other companies could outbid us for potential projects or produce minerals at lower costs, which would have a negative effect on our operations. As a result of this competition, we may be unable to maintain or acquire attractive mining properties on terms we consider acceptable or at all. Consequently, our revenues, operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may not pay dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We have paid no dividends on our common shares since incorporation and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our company’s board of directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial condition and current and anticipated cash needs. 