D. Risk Factors The following is a brief discussion of those distinctive or special characteristics of our operations and industry which may have a material impact on, or constitute risk factors in respect of, our future financial performance. Exploration and Development Risks We are engaged in the business the acquisition, exploration, exploration management, development and sale of mineral properties, with the primary aim of developing them to a stage where they can be exploited at a profit. Our property interests are in the exploration stage only, with the exception of the Petaquilla Property, and are without a known body of commercial ore. Accordingly, there is little likelihood that we will realize any profits in the short to medium term. Any profitability in the future from our business will be dependent upon locating mineral reserves, which itself is subject to numerous risk factors. The business of exploring for minerals and mining involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. In developing our mineral deposits, we will be subjected to an array of complex economic factors and accordingly there is no assurance that a positive feasibility study or any projected results contained in a feasibility study of a mineral deposit will be attained. Technical considerations, delays in obtaining governmental approvals, inability to obtain financing or other factors could cause delays in developing properties. Such delays could materially adversely affect our financial performance. The business of mining is subject to a variety of risks such as cave-ins and other accidents, flooding, environmental hazards, the discharge of toxic chemicals and other hazards. Such occurrences may delay production, increase production costs or result in liability. We will have insurance in amounts that we consider to be adequate to protect ourselves against certain risks of mining and processing. However, we may become subject to liability for hazards against which we cannot insure ourselves or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. In particular, we are not insured for environmental liability or earthquake damage. In order to develop the Petaquilla Property, located in Panama, it will be necessary to build the necessary infrastructure facilities, including electricity, transportation, etc., the costs of which could be substantial. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2002, we recorded a write-down of $32,628,433 in respect of our Petaquilla Property as a result of depressed copper prices making development of the Petaquilla Property uneconomical at that time. Estimates of Reserves, Mineral Deposits and Production Costs Although the ore reserve and mineral deposit figures included herein have been carefully prepared by us, or, in some instances have been prepared, reviewed or verified by independent mining experts, these amounts are estimates only and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of minerals from ore reserves will in fact be realized or that an identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Estimates of reserves, mineral deposits and production costs can also be affected by such factors as permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results. &nbs p;Short term factors relating to ore reserves, such as the need for orderly development of ore bodies or the processing of new or different grades, may also have an adverse effect on mining operations and on the results of operations. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions. Material changes in ore reserves, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of projects. Ore reserves are reported as general indicators of mine life. Reserves should not be interpreted as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of current or future operations. Risks of Development, Construction and Mining Operations Our ability to meet timing and cost estimates for properties cannot be assured. Technical considerations, delays in obtaining governmental approvals, inability to obtain financing or other factors could cause delays in developing properties. Such delays could materially adversely affect our financial performance. The business of mining is subject to a variety of risks such as cave-ins and other accidents, flooding, environmental hazards, the discharge of toxic chemicals and other hazards. Such occurrences may delay production, increase production costs or result in liability. We will obtain insurance in amounts that we consider to be adequate to protect ourselves against certain risks of mining and processing. However, we may become subject to liability for hazards against which we cannot insure ourselves or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. In particular, we are not insured for environmental liability or earthquake damage. In order to develop the Petaquilla Property, it will be necessary to build the necessary infrastructure facilities, including, electricity, transportation, etc., the costs of which could be substantial. Expanded Panama Canal Watershed Could Affect Development On August 30, 1999, the Government of Panama passed legislation which significantly expands the size of the Panama Canal Watershed in general and, in particular, establishes an overlap of 2,885 of the 13,600 hectares comprising the Petaquilla concession. It is possible that the future construction of dams within the watershed area could negatively affect the development of the Petaquilla Property. Title Matters While we have diligently investigated title to all mineral exploration concessions and, to the best of our knowledge, title to such properties is in good standing, this should not be construed as a guarantee of title. Conflicts of Interest Certain of our directors are directors of other reporting companies or have significant shareholdings in other mineral resource companies and, to the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which we may participate, our directors may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of our directors, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such a participation or such terms. In appropriate cases we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. In accordance with the laws of the Province of British Columbia, our directors are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the bes t interests of Petaquilla Minerals. In determining whether or not we will participate in a particular program and the interest therein to be acquired by it, the directors will primarily consider the potential benefits to Petaquilla Minerals, the degree of risk to which we may be exposed and our financial position at that time. Other than as indicated, we have no other procedures or mechanisms to deal with conflicts of interest. Currency Fluctuations We maintain our accounts in Canadian dollars. Our operations in Panama may make us subject to foreign currency fluctuations. Panama's currency, the Balboa, is at parity with the U.S. dollar. Exchange transactions are allowed in U.S. dollars, and as a result foreign currency fluctuations will only be material for us to the extent that fluctuations between the Canadian and U.S. dollar are material. We do not at present, nor do we plan in the future, plan to engage in foreign currency transactions to hedge any exchange rate risks. Additional Funding Requirements We have not generated cash flow from operations in the past and cash flow is not expected in the next few years to satisfy our operational requirements and cash commitments. In the past, we have relied on sales of equity securities to meet most of our cash requirements, together with management fees, property payments and sales or joint ventures of properties. There can be no assurance that funding from these sources will be sufficient in the future to satisfy our operational requirements and cash commitments. We do not presently have sufficient financial resources to undertake all of our planned exploration and development programs. The development of our properties depends upon our ability to obtain financing through any or all of the joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the required financing. Failure to obtain additional financing on a timely basis could cause us to forfeit our interest in our properties and reduce or terminate our operations on such properties. Accordingly, in their report on the consolidated financial statements for the period ended January 31, 2005, our independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph regarding concerns about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements contain additional note disclosures describing the circumstances that lead to this disclosure by our independent auditors. In particular, although we have entered into an agreement whereby Teck Cominco Limited can earn one-half of our interest in the Petaquilla Property, by funding the feasibility study and our capital costs, there is no assurance that Teck Cominco Limited will elect to participate or to continue to participate in such property, in which event we will be required to finance all future exploration and development, or seek another partner. Pursuant to our agreement with Teck Cominco Limited, Teck Cominco Limited can, at any time prior to a property reaching "commercial" production, elect to abandon and surrender its interest in any property. Requirements of Ley Petaquilla Our operations in Panama are governed primarily by Law No. 9 of the Legislative Assembly of Panama (the "Ley Petaquilla"), a project-specific piece of legislation enacted in February of 1997 to deal with the orderly development of the Petaquilla Property. The Ley Petaquilla granted a mineral exploration and exploitation concession to Minera Petaquilla, S.A. Under the Ley Petaquilla, Minera Petaquilla, S.A. was required to begin mine development by May of 2001, however, Minera Petaquilla, S.A. can defer commencing development operations for one month for every month that the price of copper remains below $1.155 per pound for up to a further five years, i.e. until May 2006 at the latest. The Ley Petaquilla also requires Minera Petaquilla, S.A. to make a minimum investment of US $400 million in the development of the Petaquilla Property. During the fiscal year en ded January 31, 2002, we recorded a write-down of $32,628,433 in respect of our Petaquilla Property as a result of depressed copper prices making development of the Petaquilla Property uneconomical at that time. Pursuant to the Petaquilla Shareholders Agreement (see Item 4. INFORMATION ON OUR COMPANY, D - Petaquilla Property, Panama) Teck Cominco Limited, had notified us that it had elected to defer, for one further year until February 21, 2005, its decision whether or not to place Petaquilla into production and thereby complete its acquisition of one half of our interest in Petaquilla. The deferral is based on Teck Cominco Limited's view that there is uncertainty surrounding plans by the Government of Panama to expand the Panama Canal zone; operating costs are substantially higher than projects being financed; forecasted copper prices remain well below current prices required for a production decision; the project does not meet operating debt service coverage ratios required for financing; and third party power supply prospects which would have substantially reduced the capital cost of th e project have become less likely. Teck Cominco Limited concluded that the project would be a relatively high cost producer. On December 13, 2004 we entered into a letter of intent with Teck Cominco Limited and Inmet Mining Corporation. The parties under the letter of intent agreed in principle to resume activity on the Minera Petaquilla project. Under the letter of intent, we may obtain 100% of the Molejon gold deposit (a gold deposit within the Minera Petaquilla S.A. project), subject to the Panamanian Government accepting a multi-phase mine development plan on terms acceptable to us, Teck Cominco Limited and Inmet Mining Corporation. We intend to focus the first phase of the mine development plan on the Molejon gold deposit. We have began further exploration and development work for the purposes of a feasibility study on the Molejon gold deposit. In addition, we intend to perform further exploration on other identified gold targets within the Minera Petaquilla concession, and those within our wholly-owned properties surrounding the Minera Petaquilla concession. We plan to commence drilling of the Minera Petaquilla project in June or July of 2005. On April 26, 2005, our company and Inmet Mining Corporation waived Teck Cominco Limited's annual obligation, under the Petaquilla Shareholders Agreement (see Item 4. INFORMATION ON OUR COMPANY, D - Petaquilla Property, Panama), to update and deliver the final bankable feasibility study to our company in 2005. We chose to waive Teck Cominco Limited's obligation due to our ongoing work on the proposed phased development plan. However, should delivery of an updated study become appropriate, we will request Teck Cominco Limited to deliver an updated version of the final bankable feasibility study. History of Net Losses; Accumulated Deficit; Lack of Revenue From Operations We have incurred net losses to date. Our deficit as of January 31, 2005, was $44,143,412. We have not yet had any revenue from the exploration activities on our properties, nor have we yet found that development activity is warranted on any of our properties. Even if we do undertake development activity on any of our properties, we may continue to incur losses beyond the period of commencement of such activity. There is no certainty that we will produce revenue, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2002, we recorded a write-down of $32,628,433 in respect of our Petaquilla Property as a result of depressed copper prices making development of the Petaquilla Property uneconomical at that time. Limited Experience with Development-Stage Mining Operations We have limited experience in placing resource properties into production, and our ability to do so will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise. There can be no assurance that we will have available to us the necessary expertise when and if we place our resource properties into production. Stock Subject to Penny Stock Rules Our capital stock would be classified as "penny stock" as defined in Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). In response to perceived abuse in the penny stock market generally, the 1934 Act was amended in 1990 to add new requirements in connection with penny stocks. In connection with effecting any transaction in a penny stock, a broker or dealer must give the customer a written risk disclosure document that (a) describes the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading, (b) describes the broker's or dealer's duties to the customer and the rights and remedies available to such customer with respect to violations of such duties, (c) describes the dealer market, including "bid" and "ask" prices for penny stock and the significance of the s pread between the bid and ask prices, (d) contains a toll-free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary histories of brokers and dealers, and (e) defines significant terms used in the disclosure document or the conduct of trading in penny stocks. In addition, the broker-dealer must provide to a penny stock customer a written monthly account statement that discloses the identity and number of shares of each penny stock held in the customer's account, and the estimated market value of such shares. The extensive disclosure and other broker-dealer compliance related to penny stocks may result in reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for such stocks, thus limiting the ability of the holder to sell such stock. Competition Significant and increasing competition exists for the limited number of mineral property acquisition opportunities available. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than us, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mineral properties on terms we consider acceptable. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our exploration and acquisition programs will yield any new reserves or result in any commercial mining operation. Mineral Prices The mining industry in general is intensely competitive and there is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, a profitable market will exist for the sale of same. Factors beyond our control may affect the marketability of any substances discovered. The prices of gold and copper have experienced volatile and significant price movements over short periods of time, and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations (specifically, the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies), interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns (such as the development of gold coin programs), speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The supply of and demand for gold and copper is affe cted by various factors, including political events, economic conditions and production costs in major producing regions and governmental policies with respect to holdings by a nation or its citizens. There can be no assurance that the prices of gold and copper will be such that our properties can be mined at a profit. Foreign Countries and Regulatory Requirements Currently, our only properties are located in Panama. Consequently, we are subject to certain risks associated with foreign ownership, including currency fluctuations, inflation, political instability and political risk. Mineral exploration and mining activities in foreign countries may be affected in varying degrees by political stability and government regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, restriction of earnings distribution, taxation laws, expropriation of property, environmental legislation, water use and mine safety. In particular, the status of Panama as a developing country may make it mo re difficult for us to obtain any required production financing for our properties from senior lending institutions. Environmental and Other Regulatory Requirements Our current or future operations, including development activities and commencement of production on our properties, require permits from various governmental authorities and such operations are and will be subject to laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Companies engaged in the development and operation of mines and related facilities generally experience increased costs, and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. There can be no assurance that approvals and permits required to commence production on our various properties will be obtained. Additional permits and studies, which may include envir onmental impact studies conducted before permits can be obtained, may be necessary prior to operation of the properties in we have interests and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to commence construction, development or operation of mining facilities at these properties on terms which enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. Our potential mining and processing operations and exploration activities in Panama are subject to various federal and provincial laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. Such operations and exploration activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies and may require that we obtain permits from various governmental agencies. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all material laws and regulations which currently apply to our activities. There can be no assurance, however, that all permits we may require for construction of mining facilities and conduct of mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms or that such laws and regulat ions would not have a material adverse effect on any mining project we might undertake. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on us and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. To the best of our knowledge, we are currently operating in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. Panama Political Risks Mineral exploration and mining activities in Panama may be affected in varying degrees by political conditions and government regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. Dividends All of our available funds will be invested to finance the growth of our business and therefore investors cannot expect and should not anticipate receiving a dividend on our common shares in the foreseeable future. Our Officers and Directors Resident Outside U.S.; Potential Unenforceability of Civil Liabilities and Judgments Petaquilla Minerals and our officers and directors are residents of countries other than the United States, and all of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or enforce in the United States against such persons judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws or state securities laws. We believe that a judgment of a United States court predicated solely upon civil liability under United States securities laws would probably be enforceable in Canada if the United States court in which the judgment was obtained has a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. However, there is doubt whether an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance on the basis of liability predicated solely upon such laws. If We are Unable to Successfully Develop and Subsequently Generate Sufficient Cash Flow from Our Properties, We Could be Treated as a Passive Foreign Investment Company for U.S. Tax Purposes, Possibly Resulting in Additional Taxes to Our U.S. Stockholders and Less Liquidity for the Stock We, as a foreign corporation with U.S. stockholders, could potentially be treated as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") for U.S. tax purposes. U.S. stockholders owning shares of a PFIC can be subject to adverse tax consequences. In general, we would be considered a PFIC if: 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income such as dividends and interest; or, the average percentage of our assets (by value) during the taxable year which produce passive income or which are held for production of same is at least 50%. A U.S. stockholder owning shares of a PFIC, who does not make certain elections for tax purposes, is subject to an additional tax and to an interest charge based on the value of deferral of tax for the period during which the common shares of the PFIC are owned. Also, a gain realized on the disposition of comm on shares of the PFIC would be treated as ordinary income rather than capital gains. If U.S. stockholders are subject to adverse tax consequences related to their ownership of our stock, they might be less willing to acquire the stock, which could result in reduced market activity and liquidity for our stock. 