Risk Factors.” We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly, particularly as we develop our internal infrastructure to support our anticipated growth. If our product revenues in any quarter do not increase correspondingly, our net losses for that period will increase. Moreover, given that a significant portion of our operating expenses is largely fixed in nature and cannot be quickly reduced, if our product revenues are delayed or below expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. For these reasons, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on results of operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts in any quarter, the market value of our common stock would likely decrease, and it could decrease rapidly and substantially. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain our future earnings, if any, to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in the value of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain its current price. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, each as amended, as well as Delaware law, could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control transaction or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. We also have a staggered board of directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. If a tender offer, change in control transaction, takeover attempt or change in our board of directors is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 27,227,668 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our common stock; • limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or 30 Table of Contents • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have in the past and we may in the future issue additional shares of authorized preferred stock at any time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 