ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below. Risks Relating to Our Industry, Products, Financial Results and Operations Evaluating our business and future prospects may be difficult due to the rapidly changing market landscape. There is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. Although we were formed in 1994 to research and develop crystalline silicon technology for use in manufacturing solar power products and began shipping product from our pilot manufacturing facility in 1997, we first shipped commercial products from our Marlboro manufacturing facility in September 2001. Relative to the entire solar industry, we have shipped only a limited number of solar power modules and have recognized limited revenues. The market we are addressing is rapidly evolving and is experiencing technological advances and new market entrants. Our future success will require us to scale our manufacturing capacity significantly beyond the capacity of our Marlboro, Massachusetts manufacturing facility, and our business model and technology are unproven at significant scale. Moreover, EverQ, our strategic partnership with Q-Cells and REC, is only in the early stages of development and we have limited experience upon which to predict whether it will be successful. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a growing and rapidly evolving market. We have a history of losses, expect to incur substantial further losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which may decrease the market value of our stock. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses, including a net loss of $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Principally as a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $93.0 million as of December 31, 2005. We expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future, which could materially decrease the market value of our common stock. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we seek to: • expand our manufacturing operations, whether domestically or internationally, including the EverQ manufacturing facility in Germany; • develop our distribution network; • continue to research and develop our products and manufacturing technologies; 19 Table of Contents • implement internal systems and infrastructure in conjunction with our growth; and • hire additional personnel. We do not know whether our revenues will grow at all or grow rapidly enough to absorb these expenses, and our limited operating history makes it difficult to assess the extent of these expenses or their impact on our operating results. We may need to raise significant additional capital in order to fund our operations and to continue to grow our business, which subjects us to the risk that we may be unable to maintain or grow our business as planned and that our stockholders may be subject to substantial additional dilution. In order to satisfy our existing capital requirements and to fund continuing capacity expansion, we raised $62.3 million, net of offering costs of approximately $4.4 million, from the public sale of our common stock in February 2005. Additionally, we issued Convertible Subordinated Debt with a principal amount of $90 million, providing us with approximately $86.9 million net of issuance costs of $3.1 million. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will be sufficient to fund our operating expenditures over the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise significant additional capital in order to expand EverQ’s manufacturing capacity beyond 30MW, to further enhance our operating infrastructure, to secure the supply of raw materials to further increase manufacturing capacity through the build-out of other manufacturing facilities and to advance our research and development programs that are key to refining our products and to lowering our manufacturing costs. We may also require additional capital to respond to competitive pressures and acquire complementary businesses or necessary technologies. We do not know whether or not we will be able to raise additional financing or financing on terms favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, maintain our research and development efforts or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly impaired. In such a case, our stock price would likely be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible or exchangeable securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced. These newly issued securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. Our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity and therefore to increase revenue and achieve profitability depends to a large extent upon the success of EverQ. EverQ is subject to numerous risks, many of which are outside of our control, and we cannot assure you that EverQ will achieve its objective or otherwise be successful. If EverQ is not successful, our business would be materially and adversely harmed and our stock price would decline. In January 2005, we entered into a strategic partnership agreement with Q-Cells AG, or Q-Cells. Q-Cells is the world’s largest independent manufacturer of solar cells, whose crystalline solar cells are among the highest efficiency polycrystalline solar cells commercially available. The agreement provided for the organization and capitalization of EverQ GmbH, or EverQ, which is a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Germany and our consolidated subsidiary. In November 2005, Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, or REC, based in Hovik, Norway and one of the world’s largest manufacturer of solar-grade silicon and multicrystalline wafers, joined the EverQ partnership. The purpose of EverQ is to develop and operate a facility in Germany to manufacture, market and sell solar products based on our proprietary String Ribbontm technology using fabrication processes that combine our, Q-Cells’ and REC’s manufacturing technologies. We believe that EverQ will accelerate the availability of wafer, cell and module manufacturing capacity based on String Ribbon technology and provide greater access to the European solar market. The EverQ manufacturing facility is located in Thalheim, Germany and is expected to have an initial capacity of 30 megawatts (“MW”). Dependent upon the success of the initial operations of this facility the partners intend over the long term, if economically viable, to expand the capacity of this facility up to 20 Table of Contents approximately 120 MW. The table below summarizes the funding sources of EverQ through December 31, 2005 (USD at December 31, 2005 exchange rates): Evergreen’s (In millions) Total USD Contribution USD Public grants expected to be received € 28.0 $ 33.1 € — $ — Equity 30.0 35.5 22.5 26.6 Shareholder loan 8.0 9.5 8.0 9.5 Bank loan 8.0 9.5 — — Total € 74.0 $ 87.6 € 30.5 $ 36.1 Our portion of the equity financing noted in the table above was the amount paid prior to REC joining EverQ. Although EverQ has not received any grants to date, on April 25, 2005, EverQ received notification that, subject to certain conditions, including receipt of European Union approval for a portion of the total grants, it will receive German government grants which, together with tax incentives expected to be received from German government authorities, would amount to approximately 28 million Euro. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 14 million Euro had been accrued and billed by EverQ in relation to these grants not relating to the portion subject to EU approval. Through October 2005, Q-Cells and we have each made our required equity contributions which totaled 30 million Euro. In late 2005, we entered into a shareholder loan agreement with EverQ pursuant to which we agreed to loan EverQ up to 8 million Euro, of which approximately 4 million Euro was outstanding as of December 31, 2005 and the remainder was drawn during January 2006. During November 2005, EverQ entered into a credit agreement with Deutsche Bank which included a loan of 8 million Euro to provide for interim financing, of which approximately 4 million Euro was outstanding as of December 31, 2005. REC acquired a 15% ownership position in EverQ from us and Q-Cells for cash, for 4.7 million Euros determined on a cost-of-capital basis. Following REC’s initial investment, we owned 64% of EverQ, Q-Cells 21% and REC 15%. Additionally, REC has agreed to the long-term supply of solar-grade silicon to EverQ at market-based pricing. Separately, REC agreed to also supply us with a long-term supply of solar-grade silicon at market-based pricing. Under the seven-year term of the agreements, REC has agreed to supply us with 60 metric tons and EverQ with 190 metric tons of solar-grade silicon annually. Additionally, REC has agreed to license to EverQ and us certain of its proprietary manufacturing technology. The agreements contemplate that when REC establishes planned additional facilities for the production of silicon, it will offer to EverQ a second long-term supply agreement that would substantially increase REC’s supply of silicon to EverQ. Should REC offer this second supply agreement, REC will be entitled to increase its ownership stake in EverQ to as much as one-third. The amended master agreement also contemplates that Q-Cells will also be able to increase its ownership stake to one-third of EverQ or a larger amount should REC decide not to increase their interest in EverQ to one-third. We have the ability to terminate EverQ if we, Q-Cells or REC are unable to finance EverQ. As a result, EverQ remains subject to the risk that the parties may be unable to finance, both directly and through government or third party sources, the costs of building the facility, which could cause EverQ to be terminated before the facility is built and result in a significant delay in our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity and our ability to significantly grow revenues and achieve profitability. In addition, EverQ subjects us to the risks inherent in complex strategic partnership transactions with third parties located in international markets, including the following: • EverQ will be highly dependent on Q-Cells’s expertise in the rapid development of solar product manufacturing facilities in Germany; therefore, if for any reason, Q-Cells does not devote the personnel necessary to assist us in the development of our facility, EverQ may experience delays and cost-overruns or may be unsuccessful in the establishment of the operation; • EverQ contemplates that each of the Company, Q-Cells and REC will contribute certain technologies to EverQ in order to establish novel manufacturing processes based on a combination of our respective technologies; as such, the success of EverQ depends on our ability to integrate our respective technologies and manufacturing processes in order to produce competitive solar products in the world 21 Table of Contents marketplace; such integration is unproven and if we are unable to integrate our technologies and manufacturing processes, the prospects for EverQ would be limited; • government grants that have been approved may be subject to forfeiture or repayment in whole or in part if EverQ fails to continue to meet the conditions for such grants or if such grants for any reason become unavailable from German or European Union sources; • the establishment of the facility may result in cost overruns, delays, equipment problems and construction, start-up and other operating difficulties, any of which could adversely affect the ability of EverQ to achieve or grow revenue on the timeframe we expect; • although initially minority shareholders in EverQ, Q-Cells and REC will have the ability to influence the strategic direction of EverQ and other material decisions of EverQ; as a result, we may be unable to take certain actions that we believe would be in our best interests, which, given the expected materiality of EverQ to our combined operations, could significantly harm our business; further, we may be liable to third parties for the material decisions and actions of Q-Cells and REC in EverQ, which actions may harm EverQ and our business; • the establishment of EverQ will require significant management attention and will place significant strain on our ability to manage effectively both our operations in Marlboro and the operations of EverQ in Germany; • EverQ may subject us to multiple, conflicting and changing laws, regulations and tax schemes; • EverQ may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce adequate intellectual property rights and protection due to limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection and may be subject to claims or suits alleging infringement of third party intellectual property rights; • under certain circumstances, if we exit EverQ, EverQ will continue to have certain rights to our proprietary technologies that we are licensing to it and thereby compete with us; • two years after the termination of the master joint venture agreement, Q-Cells and REC may engage in ribbon technology-related activities in competition with us; • limitations on dividends or restrictions against repatriation of earnings may limit our ability to capitalize on earnings from EverQ; • the operation of the manufacturing facility may experience seasonal reductions in productivity common in certain foreign countries, such as the summer months in Europe; • EverQ may be subject to increases in tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers imposed by foreign countries; • EverQ may be unable to successfully hire and retain the additional personnel necessary to operate the facility, which is expected to require approximately 400 employees for the initial capacity expansion; • we will be exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • we may experience difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including the difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs. As a result, there can be no assurance that EverQ will be successful in establishing the facility or, once established, that EverQ will attain the manufacturing capacity or the financial results that we currently expect. In addition, our strategic partnership with Q-Cells and REC subjects us to a risk that in the future we may be unable to consolidate EverQ’s financial results into our financial statements. We consolidate the financial statements of EverQ in accordance with the provisions of FASB FIN 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51.” In the event that Q-Cells and REC increase their ownership interest or for any reason our ownership interest in EverQ decreases, we may be unable under generally accepted accounting principles to continue to consolidate. As a result, we are subject to the risk that period-to-period comparisons of our financial statements in the future may be difficult to make. 22 Table of Contents Our future success substantially depends on our ability to significantly increase our manufacturing capacity through the development of additional manufacturing facilities. We may be unable to achieve our capacity expansion goals as a result of a number of risks, which would limit our growth potential, impair our operating results and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. Our future success depends on our ability to increase our manufacturing capacity through the development of additional manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to achieve the production volumes and per unit costs that will allow us to meet customer demand, maintain our competitive position and achieve profitability. Our ability to develop additional manufacturing facilities is subject to significant risk and uncertainty, including: • we may need to continue to raise significant additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible or debt securities in order to finance the costs of development of any additional facility, which we may be unable to do on reasonable terms or at all, and which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders; • the build-out of any additional facility will be subject to the risks inherent in the development of a new manufacturing facility, including risks of delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be out of our control, such as delays in government approvals or problems with supplier relationships; • our manufacturing processes, particularly those that incorporate improvements to our String Ribbon technology, are unproven at large scale and may prove difficult to implement in any new facility; • we may be required to depend on third parties or strategic partnerships that we establish in the development and operation of a facility, which may subject us to risks that such third parties do not fulfill their obligations to us under our arrangements with them; • the establishment of any new facility will require significant management attention, and our management team, which has limited experience in the development of such facilities, may be unable to execute the expansion plan effectively; and • if a new facility is established internationally, we may encounter legal restrictions and liability, encounter commercial restrictions and incur taxes and other expenses to do so and otherwise be subject to the risks inherent in conducting business in a foreign jurisdiction as described elsewhere in this section. If we are unable to develop and successfully operate additional manufacturing facilities, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to scale our business to the extent necessary to achieve profitability, which would cause our stock price to decline. Moreover, there can be no assurance that if we do expand our manufacturing capacity that we will be able to generate customer demand for our solar power products at these production levels or that we will increase our revenues or achieve profitability. Because we depend on single and sole source suppliers for a number of specialized materials, including silicon, necessary to manufacture our solar power products, we are susceptible to supplier and industry-wide supply shortages and price volatility, which could adversely affect our ability to meet existing and future customer demand for our products and cause us to make fewer shipments, generate lower than anticipated revenues and manufacture our products at higher than expected costs. We have single and sole source suppliers for a number of specialized materials, including silicon and string, necessary to manufacture our solar power products, which makes us susceptible to quality issues, shortages and price changes for these materials. In particular, we currently use a granular form of silicon which has a format that is best suited for our String Ribbon manufacturing process. Currently, only MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc (MEMC) produces granular silicon available on a commercial scale, and we have historically obtained our silicon from this supplier. MEMC is also a supplier of silicon to the semiconductor industry, which has significantly greater buying power and market influence than we have or anyone else has in the solar power industry. Demand for and pricing of silicon has increased significantly over the past 23 Table of Contents 18 months. Further increases in the demand for silicon may cause us to encounter shortages or delays in obtaining the specialized silicon to be used in the manufacture of our solar power products, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and decreased revenues. Additionally, further increases in the price of available silicon could negatively impact our results of operations in any given period. In June 2005, we signed two short-term supply contracts with MEMC that we expected would provide our silicon supply through the first quarter of 2006. The first contract was for 10 metric tons (MT) of silicon and the second was for 90 MT of silicon. The contracts required significant upfront payments for initial shipments of silicon and provided for a reduced rate for subsequent silicon shipments. The contracts further provided that if MEMC failed to fulfill its supply obligations, it would be required to reimburse us for the excess payments on the initial supply. MEMC confirmed to us its intentions to fulfill its supply obligations under the contracts by the end of January 2006 in October 2005 and again in December 2005. At December 31, 2005 MEMC had approximately 53 MT of silicon remaining to be shipped on the contracts. However, in early January MEMC advised us that it did not intend to fulfill its supply obligations under the contracts and instead intended to return the excess payments. Despite our best efforts we have been unable to find a resolution to this matter. Since January 1, MEMC has shipped only 1 MT of silicon. In light of MEMC’s refusal to meet its supply obligations under the contracts to date and the current state of our negotiations with MEMC to try and amicably resolve MEMC’s supply obligations, we do not currently expect to obtain the approximately 52 MT remaining on the supply contracts. As a replacement to the expected supply of silicon from MEMC, we are sourcing chunk silicon. In order for us to use this form of silicon, it must be crushed in an additional process. This process increases the complexity and cost of sourcing this silicon, and has the added risk that the resulting material will be of inadequate purity or format to meet our requirements. Reliance on chunk silicon requires us to modify our processes and begin using crushed silicon earlier than we had anticipated. While we have used crushed silicon in pilot scale with acceptable results, we have not fully tested the process at commercial scale. Failure by us to convert chunk silicon into a usable format in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis could result in delays in the manufacture of our solar power products or could otherwise have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In November 2005, we entered into a long-term silicon supply agreement with REC. Under the terms of this agreement, REC has committed to supply us with 60 MT of silicon and to supply EverQ with 190 MT of silicon annually. While REC is currently operating a pilot scale operation to produce granular silicon, REC currently only produces commercial quantities of chunk silicon. The termination of silicon shipments from MEMC has accelerated the timetable by which we will become reliant on REC for our silicon supply. Our dependence on a limited number of third party suppliers for raw materials, key components for our solar power products and custom-built equipment for our operations could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes, which could result in order cancellations and loss of market share. We manufacture all of our solar power products using materials and components procured from a limited number of third-party suppliers. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products or our products may be available only at a higher cost or after a long delay, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes and we may experience order cancellation and loss of market share. We currently do not have contracts with many of our suppliers and may not be able to procure sufficient quantities of the materials and components necessary to manufacture our products on acceptable commercial terms or at all. To the extent the processes that our suppliers use to manufacture materials and components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable materials and components from alternative suppliers. The failure of a supplier to supply materials and components in a timely manner, or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements could impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase their costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain substitute sources of these materials and components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us. Certain of the capital equipment used in the manufacture of our solar power products has been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. Consequently, any 24 Table of Contents damage to or break down of our manufacturing equipment at a time we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products may have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, a supplier’s failure to supply this equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay our capacity expansion of our manufacturing facility and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. We may fail to successfully bring to market our new solar power products under development, which may prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Although we have been selling our solar power products since 1997, we expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of our new solar power products that are under development and not yet commercially available. If we fail to successfully develop our new solar power products or technologies, we will likely be unable to recover the losses we have incurred to develop these products and technologies and may be unable to increase our sales and market share and to become profitable. Many of our new product and manufacturing technologies are novel and represent a departure from conventional solar power technologies, and it is difficult to predict whether we will be successful in completing their development. Our new manufacturing technologies have been tested only in our pilot manufacturing facility and, in most cases, only limited pre-production prototypes of our new products have been field-tested. Our solar power products may not gain market acceptance, which would prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. The development of a successful market for our solar power products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against other solar power products on the basis of cost, quality and performance; • our failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against conventional energy sources and alternative distributed generation technologies, such as wind and biomass, on the basis of cost, quality and performance; • whether or not customers will accept our new module designs under development and the techniques we are developing to mount them; and • our failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with distributors, systems integrators and other resellers, as well as strategic partners. If our solar power products fail to gain market acceptance, we would be unable to increase our sales and market share and to achieve and sustain profitability. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our solar power products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. The solar power industry is rapidly evolving and competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. We believe that a variety of competing solar power technologies are under development by other companies that could result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected for our solar power products. Our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others and other technologies may prove more advantageous for the commercialization of solar power products. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to increase market share and sales depends on our ability to successfully maintain our existing distribution relationships and expand our distribution channels. We currently sell our solar power products primarily to distributors, system integrators and other value-added resellers within and outside of North America, which typically resell our products to end users on a global basis. During our fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, we sold our solar power products to approximately 35 distributors, system integrators and other value-added resellers. If we are unable to successfully refine our existing distribution relationships and expand our distribution channels, our revenues and future prospects will be materially harmed. As we seek to grow our sales by entering new markets in which we have little experience selling our solar power products, our ability to increase market share and sales will depend substantially on our ability to expand our distribution channels by identifying, developing and maintaining relationships with resellers both within and outside of North America. We may be unable to enter into relationships with resellers in the markets we target or on terms and conditions favorable to us, which could prevent us from entering these markets or entering these markets in accordance with our plans. Our ability to enter into and maintain relationships with resellers will be influenced by the relationships between these resellers and our competitors, market acceptance of our solar power products and our low brand recognition as a new entrant. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, it could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. Sales in Germany constituted approximately 65% of our total product sales for the period ended December 31, 2005. We expect that our sales both to resellers and distributors outside of North America and through our resellers and distributors to end users outside of North America, which could increase upon the establishment and operation of EverQ, will continue to be significant. It will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop our international sales channels. In addition, the marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products internationally expose us to a number of markets with which we have limited experience. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, it could impair our ability to grow our business abroad. These risks include: • difficult and expensive compliance with the commercial and legal requirements of international markets, with which we have only limited experience; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; • encountering trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could affect the competitive pricing of our solar power products and reduce our market share in some countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates relative to the United States dollar; • difficulty in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international business operations; • increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; • difficulty of enforcing revenue collection internationally; and • inability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and services in German and other international markets due to, for example, third-party intellectual property rights. We expect that a portion of our international sales will be denominated in United States dollars. As a result, increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies would cause our products to become less competitive in international markets and could result in limited, if any, sales and profitability. For the foreseeable future, market conditions will require us to denominate a majority of our sales in local currencies, principally Euro, which will further expose us to foreign exchange gains or losses. Our strategy includes establishing local manufacturing facilities in international markets, such as the EverQ factory currently under construction in Germany. As we implement our strategy, we may encounter 26 Table of Contents legal restrictions and liability, encounter commercial restrictions and incur taxes and other expenses to establish our manufacturing facilities in certain countries. In addition, we may potentially forfeit, voluntarily or involuntarily, foreign assets due to economic or political instability in the countries where our local manufacturing facilities are located. Our dependence on a small number of resellers may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our product revenues. Since inception, our three largest resellers accounted for approximately 52% of our product sales and our 10 largest resellers accounted for approximately 76% of our product sales. Historically, all of our sales to these resellers are made through purchase orders without long-term commitments, including under arrangements that may be cancelled without cause on short notice and that generally do not require them to make minimum purchases. Consequently, our resellers are generally permitted to obtain products from other providers of solar power products without further obligation to us. The concentration of our product sales also exposes us to credit risks associated with the financial viability of these resellers. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 23% of our total accounts receivable were outstanding from a large U.S. distributor and approximately 15% was outstanding from a large European distributor. We anticipate that sales of our solar power products to a limited number of key resellers will continue to account for a significant portion of our total product revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our product revenues and negatively impact our operating results: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant resellers; • selection by one or more of our significant resellers of products competitive with ours; • loss of one or more of our significant resellers and our failure to recruit additional or replacement resellers; and • failure of any of our significant resellers to make timely payment of our invoices. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share, particularly as we introduce new technologies such as Thin Ribbon and larger modules. As is consistent with standard practice in our industry, the duration of our product warranties is lengthy relative to expected product life and has recently been increasing. Our current standard product warranty includes a one-year warranty period for defects in material and workmanship and a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with industry practice. Due to the long warranty period, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped product and recognized revenues. Although we have sold solar modules since 1997, none of these modules has been operating more than seven years, and a majority of them have been operating less than two years. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline. Our success in the future may depend on our ability to establish and maintain strategic alliances, and any failure on our part to establish and maintain such relationships would adversely affect our market penetration and revenue growth. We intend to continue to establish strategic relationships with third parties in the solar power industry, particularly in international markets. Our ability to establish strategic relationships will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as the competitive position of our technology and our products relative to our competitors. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to establish other strategic relationships in the future. In addition, other strategic alliances that we establish, will subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, loss of control of operations that are material to our business 27 Table of Contents and profit-sharing arrangements. Moreover, strategic alliances may be expensive to implement and subject us to the risk that the third party will not perform its obligations under the relationship, which may subject us to losses over which we have no control or expensive termination arrangements. As a result, even if our strategic alliances with third parties are successful, our business may be adversely affected by a number of factors that are outside of our control, which would in turn cause our stock price to decline. The success of our business depends on the continuing contributions of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain new qualified employees in a competitive labor market. We have attracted a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce, including scientists, engineers, researchers and manufacturing and marketing professionals. If we were to lose the services of Richard M. Feldt, our Chief Executive Officer, President and a Director, or any of our other executive officers and key employees, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our senior management or other key personnel. We had approximately 290 employees as of December 31, 2005, and we anticipate that we will need to hire a significant number of new highly-skilled technical, manufacturing, sales and marketing and administrative personnel if we are to successfully develop and market our products, develop our distribution network and operate our expanded manufacturing facility as well as the EverQ manufacturing facility under construction in Germany. EverQ had approximately 35 employees as of December 31, 2005. Competition for personnel is intense, and qualified technical personnel are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Locating candidates with the appropriate qualifications, particularly in the desired geographic location, can be costly and difficult. We may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategy, or we may need to provide higher compensation or more training to our personnel than we currently anticipate. Moreover, any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. We may be affected by skilled labor shortages and labor disputes. We require experienced engineers, technicians and machinists to conduct our business. No assurance can be given that the supply of these skilled persons will always be adequate to meet our requirements or that we will be able to attract an adequate number of skilled persons. Labor disputes could also occur at our manufacturing facilities, which may affect our business. While our employees are not currently represented by labor unions or organized under collective bargaining agreements, labor disputes could occur at any of our facilities, including our Marlboro facility as well as the EverQ manufacturing facility under construction in Germany, which could adversely impact our revenues and operations. Extended business interruption at our manufacturing facilities could result in reduced sales. We utilize highly flammable materials such as silane and methane in our manufacturing processes. We have significant experience in handling these materials and take precautions to handle and transport them in a safe manner. By utilizing these materials, we are subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires. Our inability to fill customer orders during an extended business interruption could negatively impact existing customer relationships resulting in market share decreases. Because our business relies upon a variety of computer systems to operate effectively, the failure or disruption of, or latent defects in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are a highly automated company whose efficient and effective operation relies on a variety of information systems, including e-mail, enterprise resource planning and manufacturing execution systems. Disruption in the operation of these systems, or difficulties in maintaining or upgrading these systems, could have an adverse effect on our business. Difficulties that we have encountered, or may encounter, in connection with our implementation and use of our computer systems, including human error or our reliance on, or a failure or disruption of, or latent defects in, such systems, could adversely affect our order management and fulfillment, financial reporting and supply chain management processes, and any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business 28 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. Effective internal controls over financial controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls over financial reporting that need improvement. During 2005, we had a material error in our interim financial reports for the periods ending April 2, 2005 and July 2, 2005, which required a restatement of our balance sheets and statements of cash flows for those periods. Although we have implemented enhanced internal controls to properly prepare our financial statements, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm annually attest to our evaluation, as well as issue their own opinion on our report on internal control over financial reporting, which was completed for the first time in connection with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. We prepared for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls over financial reporting to provide the basis for our report. The continuous process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant management attention. Further, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Additionally, as we rapidly grow our business, including expansion related to EverQ, our internal controls over financial reporting will become more complex and will require significantly more resources to ensure that they remain effective. Failure to design required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If a material weakness is discovered the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remediated, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, future non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq National Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock. Our management team may not be able to successfully implement our business strategies. If our management team is unable to execute on its business strategies, then our product development, the expansion of our manufacturing operations and distribution network and our sales and marketing activities would be materially and adversely affected. In connection with the planned expansion of our manufacturing capacity, including the EverQ manufacturing facility under construction in Germany, we have undergone and anticipate undergoing further rapid growth in the scope of our operations and the number of our employees, which is likely to place a significant strain on our senior management team and other resources. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by this rapid growth. We may seek to augment or replace members of our management team or we may lose key members of our management team, and we may not be able to attract new management talent with sufficient skill and experience. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid applications could cause our revenues to decline. We believe that the growth of the majority of our target markets, particularly the market for on-grid applications, depends on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Accordingly, the reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives would likely reduce the size of these markets and/or result in increased price competition, which could cause our revenues to decline. Today, the cost of solar power substantially exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably the United States, Japan and Germany, have provided subsidies in the form of cost reductions, tax write-offs and other incentives to end users, distributors, systems integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to 29 Table of Contents promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales would not significantly increase and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. The market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenues to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: • cost-effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; • performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; • success of alternative distributed generation technologies such as fuel cells, wind power and micro turbines; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, • such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease when the United States or global economy slows; • continued deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry; and • availability of government subsidies and incentives. We face intense competition from other companies producing solar power and other energy generation products. If we fail to compete effectively, we may be unable to increase our market share and sales. The solar power market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. Our competitors have established a market position more prominent than ours, and if we fail to attract and retain customers and establish a successful distribution network for our solar power products, we may be unable to increase our sales and market share. There are a large number of companies in the world that produce solar power products, including BP Solar, Kyocera Corporation, Sharp Corporation, Mitsubishi, Solar World AG and Sanyo Corporation. We also expect that future competition will include new entrants to the solar power market offering new technological solutions. Further, many of our competitors are developing and are currently producing products based on new solar power technologies, including other crystalline silicon ribbon and sheet technologies, that they believe will ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. Most of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, have longer operating histories and have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs due to their ability to allocate fixed costs across a greater volume of production and purchase raw materials at lower prices. Many also have greater name recognition, a more established distribution network and a larger installed base of customers. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential resellers and their customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements than we can. 30 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we could lose our competitive advantage in the solar power market. Our ability to compete effectively against competing solar power technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technology, product designs and manufacturing processes through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and may need to defend our products and services against infringement claims, either of which could result in the loss of our competitive advantage in the solar power market and materially harm our business and profitability. We face the following risks in protecting our intellectual property and in developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and services: • we cannot be certain that our pending United States and foreign patent applications will result in issued patents or that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes; • given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important; • our license, but not our right, to practice the String Ribbon technology terminated upon the expiration of the underlying patents, which occurred during 2003 and 2004, and our historical operating experience with String Ribbon technology and our related patented and proprietary manufacturing processes may not adequately protect our competitive advantage; • third parties may design around our patented technologies or seek to challenge or invalidate our intellectual property rights and there is no assurance that our intellectual property rights will deter infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; • we may incur significant costs and diversion of management resources in prosecuting or defending intellectual property infringement suits; • we may not be successful in prosecuting or defending intellectual property infringement suits and, as a result, may need to seek to obtain a license of the third party’s intellectual property rights, which may not be available to us, whether on reasonable terms or at all; • the contractual provisions we rely on to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, such as our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties, may be breached and our trade secrets and proprietary information may be disclosed to competitors, strategic partners and the public; While our license to the underlying patents directed to the String Ribbon technology has expired, we own 5 United States patents, 8 pending United States patent applications, 2 granted European patent applications that have enforceable rights in 10 foreign jurisdictions and 19 pending foreign patent applications directed to various aspects of the String Ribbon technology; however, our historical operating experience with String Ribbon technology and our related patented and proprietary manufacturing processes may not adequately protect our competitive advantage now that the licensed patents have expired. If we are subject to litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries. There may be patents or patent applications in the United States or other countries that are pertinent to our business of which we are not aware. The technology that we incorporate into and use to develop and manufacture our current and future solar power products may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. The success of our technology efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may receive notices from third parties alleging patent, trademark or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or contract claims. Receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our technology efforts. No third party has a current filed intellectual property lawsuit, arbitration or other proceeding against us. If a 31 Table of Contents successful claim were brought against us, we would have to attempt to license the intellectual property right from the claimant or to spend time and money to design around or avoid the intellectual property. Any such license may not be available at reasonable terms, or at all. We may, however, be involved in future lawsuits, arbitrations or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations. In addition, litigation, arbitration or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: • assert claims of infringement or misappropriation of or otherwise enforce our intellectual property rights; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our intellectual property rights or those of others. We may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management’s efforts. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses to other parties’ intellectual property rights. We may also be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing, marketing or selling a solar power product or service that we develop. Further, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may have to participate in proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark office, or before foreign patent and trademark offices, with respect to our patents, patent applications, trademarks or trademark applications or those of others. These actions may result in substantial costs to us as well as a diversion of management attention. Furthermore, these actions could place our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights at risk and could result in the loss of patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection for the products and services on which our business strategy depends. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use or reduced sales or otherwise reduce our ability to compete. Our business and competitive position depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any solar power products that we develop. Despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any patents issued in connection with our efforts to develop new technology for solar power products may not be broad enough to protect all of the potential uses of the technology. In addition, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a technology in-licensed to us, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. If the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the related solar power products. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: • independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; • otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or • design around our patents or other intellectual property. We pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. 32 Table of Contents If the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. The value of our patents depends in part on their duration. A shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. For example, the United States patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years after the date of a patent’s issuance to 20 years after the earliest effective filing date of the application for a patent, unless the application was pending on June 8, 1995, in which case the term of a patent’s protection expires either 17 years after its issuance or 20 years after its filing, whichever is later. Because the average time from filing of patent application to issuance of a patent there from is usually at least one year and, depending on the subject matter, may be more than three years, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. Also, we may need to re-file some of our patent applications to disclose additional subject matter and, in these situations, the patent term will be measured from the date of the earliest priority application to which benefit is claimed in such a patent application. This would shorten our period of patent exclusivity and may decrease the revenues that we might obtain from the patents. International intellectual property protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and we have not obtained or sought patent or trademark protection in many foreign countries where our solar power products and services may be developed, manufactured, marketed or sold. Intellectual property law outside the United States is even more uncertain and costly than in the United States and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws. Moreover, we have not sought, obtained or maintained patent and trademark protection in many foreign countries in which our solar power products and services may be developed, manufactured, marketed or sold by us or by others. Existing regulations and changes to such regulations may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as internal policies and regulations promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electric grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electric grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. There is also a burden in having to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us and our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. 33 Table of Contents Our reliance on government contracts to partially fund our research and development programs could slow our ability to commercialize our solar power technologies and would increase our research and development expenses. We intend to continue our policy of selectively pursuing contract research, product development and market development programs funded by various agencies of the United States, state and international governments to complement and enhance our own resources. These government agencies may not continue their commitment to programs to which our development projects are applicable. Moreover, we may not be able to compete successfully to obtain funding through these or other programs. A reduction or discontinuance of these programs or of our participation in these programs would increase our research and development expenses, which could slow our ability to develop our solar power technologies. In addition, contracts involving government agencies may be terminated or modified at the convenience of the agency. Other risks include potential disclosure of our confidential information to third parties and the exercise of “march-in” rights by the government. Our government-sponsored research contracts are subject to audit and require that we provide regular written technical updates on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, and, at the conclusion of the research contract, a final report on the results of our technical research. Because these reports are generally available to the public, third parties may obtain some aspects of our sensitive confidential information. Moreover, the failure to provide these reports or to provide inaccurate or incomplete reports may provide the government with rights to any intellectual property arising from the related research. “March-in” rights refer to the right of the United States government or government agency to require us to grant a license to the technology to a responsible applicant or, if we refuse, the United States government or government agency may grant the license itself. The United States government or government agency can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the technology or because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations or to give the United States industry preference. Funding from government contracts also may limit when and how we can deploy our technology developed under those contracts. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. We are required to comply with all foreign, federal, state and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. If more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. We believe that we have all necessary permits to conduct our business as it is presently conducted. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, however, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. In addition, under some foreign, federal and state statutes and regulations, a governmental agency may seek recovery and response costs from operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if the operator was not responsible for such release or otherwise at fault. Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. Like other retailers, distributors and manufacturers of products that are used by consumers, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the solar power products we sell results in injury. Since our products are electricity producing devices, it is possible that consumers could be injured or killed by our products, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. In addition, since sales of our existing products have been modest and the products we are developing incorporate new technologies and use new installation methods, we cannot predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. We have 34 Table of Contents evaluated the potential risks we face and believe that we have appropriate levels of insurance for product liability claims. We rely on our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims and have not obtained separate product liability insurance. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and if our insurance protection is inadequate to cover these claims, they could require us to make significant payments. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows. In connection with our sale of the convertible subordinated notes in June 2005, we incurred new indebtedness of $90 million. As a result of this indebtedness, our principal and interest payment obligations increased substantially. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on the notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all, including financing to fund the development or expansion of EverQ’s manufacturing operations; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock has been volatile. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The closing sale prices of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market, have ranged from $4.89 to $16.01 for the 52-week period ended March 3, 2006. Our operating performance will significantly affect the market price of our common stock. To the extent we are unable to compete effectively and gain market share or the other factors described in this section affect us, our stock price will likely decline. The market price of our common stock also may be adversely impacted by broad market and industry fluctuations regardless of our operating performance, including general economic and technology trends. The Nasdaq National Market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies such as ours have been extremely volatile. In addition, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We may be involved in securities class action litigation in the future. This litigation often results in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, including: • the size and timing of customer orders for or shipments of our products; • the rate and cost at which we are able to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, including the rate and cost at which we are able to implement advances in our String-Ribbon technology; • our ability to establish and expand key customer and distributor relationships; • our ability and the terms upon which we are able to raise capital sufficient to finance the expansion of our manufacturing capacity and our sales and marketing efforts; • our ability to establish a manufacturing facility in Germany as contemplated by our joint venture with Q-Cells and REC at the costs and on the time frame that we expect; • the extent to which Q-Cells and REC increase their ownership in EverQ in the future and thereby reduces our share of profits and losses of EverQ in future periods; 35 Table of Contents • the extent to which any change in the capital structure of EverQ in the future causes us to be unable to consolidate EverQ’s financial results; • our ability to establish strategic relationships with third parties to accelerate our growth plans; • the amount and timing of expenses associated with our research and development programs and our ability to develop enhancements to our manufacturing processes and our products; • delays associated with the supply of specialized materials necessary for the manufacture of our solar power products; • our ability to execute our cost reduction programs; • one time charges resulting from replacing existing equipment or technology with new or improved equipment or technology as part of our strategy to expand our manufacturing capacity and to decrease our per unit manufacturing cost; • developments in the competitive environment, including the introduction of new products or technological advancements by our competitors; and • the timing of adding the personnel necessary to execute our growth plan. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq National Market and the market for solar technology companies and us in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly. If our product revenues in any quarter do not increase correspondingly, our net losses for that period will increase. Moreover, given that a significant portion of our operating expenses is largely fixed in nature and cannot be quickly reduced, if our product revenues are delayed or below expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. For these reasons, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on results of operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts in any quarter, the market value of our common stock would likely decrease, and it could decrease rapidly and substantially. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings to support operations and to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware law, could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control transaction or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. We also have a staggered board of directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. If a tender offer, change 36 Table of Contents in control transaction, takeover attempt or change in our board of directors is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 27,227,668 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have in the past and we may in the future issue additional shares of authorized preferred stock at any time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 