ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. For more information regarding the forward-looking statements contained in this report, see “Concerns Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Other factors may also exist that we cannot anticipate or that we currently do not consider to be significant based on currently available information. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future results. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY, PRODUCTS, FINANCIAL RESULTS AND OPERATIONS Our high level of interest-related debt service could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations under our outstanding convertible notes and may impact our future operations and growth plans. Our current annual cash interest obligations associated with our outstanding convertible notes is approximately $31.4 million. In addition, we must repay $38.0 million of loans and related interest payable to Hubei Science and Technology Investment Co., Ltd., an investment fund sponsored by the government of Hubei, China, or HSTIC, by July 24, 2014, in connection with the financing of our China-based wafer manufacturing facility. We may also incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in the indentures governing our outstanding convertible notes and in any other agreements under which we incur indebtedness. Our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. For example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: • we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal at maturity and interest on our debt when due, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances and other general corporate requirements, as well as making it more difficult for us to make payments on the notes; • our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; • our level of debt and the covenants within our debt instruments may restrict us from raising additional capital on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and • covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to pay dividends, issue new or additional debt, guarantee debt, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of our assets, including through licenses of our intellectual property, or make other restricted payments and investments. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents A failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions in our debt instruments could result in events of default under such instruments, which could permit acceleration of our various outstanding notes. Any required repayment of our indebtedness as a result of acceleration would reduce the amount of our current cash on hand such that we would not have those funds available for use in our business. In addition, we may not have sufficient cash on hand to pay all such amounts in the event of an acceleration. In February 2011, we closed on an exchange offer for a portion of our existing 4% convertible notes totaling approximately $45.4 million in exchange for approximately $22.7 million in new 4% convertible notes. As a result of the exchange offer, after taking into account subsequent conversions of approximately $10.1 million of the new 4% convertible notes, we reduced our total indebtedness by approximately $32.8 million and our annual cash interest expense by approximately $1.3 million. We cannot assure you that we will be successful with any future exchanges in debt with the goal of further reducing our indebtedness, nor can we assure you that our total indebtedness will be reduced by conversions into common stock, or that we will be able to reduce our various indebtedness as needed prior to the respective maturity dates, or that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient and on terms reasonable to us to support our liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations and fund our liquidity needs. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations and fund our liquidity needs, we may need to refinance or restructure our indebtedness, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to successfully further refinance or restructure our indebtedness (including through conversions into common stock), sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments or raise additional capital, we may have to seek bankruptcy protection. We may need to raise significant additional capital in order to continue to grow our business and fund our operations as planned, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We will need to generate cash internally or raise significant additional capital to fund our planned expansion of wafer manufacturing facilities, to acquire complementary businesses and to obtain raw materials or necessary technologies. We may have insufficient liquidity to meet our operational and growth needs and may have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. If adequate capital does not become available when needed on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, further develop and expand our wafer manufacturing operations or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. In such a case, the price of our common stock would likely be further materially and adversely impacted. Our ability to raise capital may be severely hampered by adverse changes in general economic market conditions. In recent periods, the U.S. and world economy have undergone unprecedented turmoil amid stock market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, tightening of the credit markets, softness in the housing markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, reduced consumer spending, and various other economic difficulties. This recent turmoil demonstrates how uncertain future economic conditions are and those conditions could negatively impact our ability to obtain debt or equity financing. Although the U.S. economy and financial markets have improved somewhat, concerns about the stability of the markets generally have not been eliminated, and accessing the markets for capital continues to be challenging. If improvement in market and economic conditions does not continue or turmoil and volatility significantly increase, we may be further limited in our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of local, regional or global economic downturns or its potential impact on our ability to successfully access the capital markets. 15 Table of Contents We will continue to invest significantly in the research and development of our proprietary wafer technology to develop a commercially successful industry standard size wafer, and these efforts may not result in the necessary improvement in our technology or a commercially successful industry standard size wafer and our wafers may not be widely accepted. If our continuing development efforts regarding our wafer manufacturing technologies are not successful, and we are unable to develop a commercially successful industry standard size wafer and continue to decrease manufacturing costs, including further reducing silicon consumption, we may not be able to significantly expand our wafer manufacturing business. Our future will depend upon our ability to successfully execute on an industry standard size wafer business. Historically, we have produced wafers that were then processed into Evergreen Solar branded solar panels primarily in our own fully integrated factory in Devens, Massachusetts. During 2010, we began production at our 75 MW wafer facility in Wuhan, China and we have contracted with another manufacturer to process our wafers into cells and Evergreen Solar branded panels. In January 2011, we announced our intent to shut down operations at our Devens manufacturing facility to better position us to pursue our industry standard size wafer strategy and preserve our liquidity. We believe this better positions us to complete our strategy of becoming the low cost producer of industry standard size wafers. Our focus moving forward will be on our wafer manufacturing technology and to develop an industry standard size wafer. Our future expansion will be based on the industry standard size wafer which is central to our strategy of manufacturing the lowest cost wafer, in an industry standard form factor, and providing a wafer that would enable the lowest cost solar panel utilizing multi-crystalline silicon wafers. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in developing our industry standard size wafer in a manner that will be generally accepted in the marketplace or at all. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to meet our manufacturing cost objectives that will allow us to sell wafers at economically feasible margins. We are also subject to the general risk and uncertainties inherent in any substantial shift in business strategy, including: • Developing a product that will gain market acceptance; • Securing the capital needed to execute and expand upon our strategy; and • Entering into a market for which we have little experience. If we cannot effectively address these and other general risks and uncertainties, we may not be successful in executing our wafer strategy, which could impair our future business. Evaluating our business and future prospects may be difficult due to the rapidly changing market landscape. Although we were formed in 1994 to develop crystalline silicon technology for use in manufacturing solar powered products and began shipping solar panels in 1997, we first shipped solar panels at commercial scale in September 2001. Relative to the entire solar industry, we have shipped a small number of solar panels and have no experience selling wafers. The solar power market is rapidly evolving and is experiencing technological advances, a growth of manufacturers in low cost manufacturing regions, new market entrants and rapid capacity growth, which may be outpacing growth in short-term demand. Our future success will require us to scale our wafer manufacturing capacity significantly beyond the capacity of our existing Wuhan, China wafer facility. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face in a growing and rapidly evolving market. 16 Table of Contents We have a history of losses, expect to incur substantial further losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which in turn could further materially decrease the price of our common stock. Since our inception, we have incurred significant losses. We expect to incur additional losses until we achieve substantial industry standard wafer manufacturing sales. Even if we achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future if we are not able to sufficiently expand capacity or continue to reduce our costs, which in turn could further materially decrease the price of our common stock. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase as we seek to: • expand our industry standard wafer manufacturing operations; • continue investing in research and development; • implement internal systems and infrastructure to support our growth; and • hire additional technical personnel. We do not know whether our revenues will grow rapidly enough to absorb these costs, and our limited operating history makes it difficult to assess the extent of these expenses or their impact on our operating results. We may be subject to certain liabilities based upon our prior ownership of Sovello, which may adversely impact our funds available for our operations. On April 21, 2010, the sale of our interest in Sovello was completed. In connection with such sale, our joint venture agreement concerning Sovello was terminated, as well as our undertaking to certain of Sovello’s lenders to support Sovello’s outstanding indebtedness. However, although we have no remaining contractual obligations, the German government could pursue us for repayment of certain German government grant funding previously issued to Sovello in the event Sovello becomes insolvent prior to the first anniversary of the sale. In the event Sovello becomes insolvent prior to April 21, 2011, and is unable to repay the German grant funding it previously received, we could have significant liability for repayment of such funds. The costs associated with the shutdown of our Devens, Massachusetts manufacturing facility may be greater than expected and the anticipated positive impact on our cash position may not materialize. On January 10, 2011, our board of directors and management committed us to shutdown production at our Devens, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. We intend to complete the shutdown during the first quarter of 2011. As a result of the closure of the Devens facility, we incurred non-cash charges of approximately $377.5 million associated with the write-off of existing building, facilities, equipment and prepaid cost of silicon in the fourth quarter of 2010. Furthermore, we expect to incur approximately $15 million to $20 million of costs associated with employee severance and out placement services, facility decommissioning and other costs required to close the facility. These cash charges are expected to be incurred over a twelve month period. In total, we expect that approximately 800 employees will be affected by this action. In addition, as a result of the Devens shutdown, Massachusetts state agencies that provided approximately $20 million of grant funding to partially finance the build out of our Devens facility in 2007 have indicated they will seek repayment of certain unearned amounts under our grant agreements. We do not know the amounts, if any, that will ultimately need to be repaid to Massachusetts state agencies or when those payments would become due. Based on our understanding of the grant agreements, we do not believe these amounts will need to be repaid for several years, but we cannot be sure that an adverse determination would not be made if our interpretation of the agreements were challenged. We also cannot be certain that the costs associated with closing the Devens facility will not be greater than currently expected. We expect the shutdown of the Devens facility to eliminate the risks associated with continued manufacturing in a high cost region in a period of rapidly declining prices and that a complete facility shutdown will help preserve cash and facilitate the pursuit of our wafer expansion strategy. However, we cannot assure you that the expected positive impact on our cash position will materialize. 17 Table of Contents Our future success depends on our ability to develop and increase our industry standard wafer manufacturing capacity, license our technologies or enter new markets to sell our wafers. Our inability to increase our production capacity directly or successfully outsource the manufacturing of our products will limit our growth potential and impair our operating results and financial condition. Our ability to plan, construct and equip additional manufacturing facilities is subject to significant risk and uncertainty, including: • possible delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be out of our control, such as delays in government approvals, burdensome permit conditions and delays in the customization, delivery, and installation of manufacturing equipment from numerous suppliers, especially our specially designed furnaces; • we may be required to depend on third parties or strategic partnerships that we establish in the development and operation of additional production capacity, which may subject us to risks that such third parties do not fulfill their obligations to us under our arrangements with them; and • in order to effectively execute our strategy of focusing on manufacturing industry standard size wafers, we will be required to access new sales channels for our wafers, develop new partnerships and other alliances with which we have little experience. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for certain materials, including key components for our solar power products and capital equipment, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and timely deliver our products. We manufacture products using materials and components procured from a limited number of suppliers, and certain materials and components we use are proprietary or available only from a limited number of sources, primarily our wafer furnaces, high temperature filament, argon and graphite. If we fail to develop, maintain or expand relationships with suppliers, or if our suppliers fail to supply good quality materials on time that meet our cost requirements and we are unable to find alternative sources, we may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely and cost-effective manner. If the market price of polysilicon decreases, we could be at a competitive disadvantage because we have entered into multi-year polysilicon contracts. Polysilicon is the key raw material, and typically the most expensive component for, solar power products utilizing crystalline silicon wafers. The market price for polysilicon steadily decreased from mid-2008 through early 2010. We purchase polysilicon pursuant to long-term supply contracts, which contain fixed pricing and volume requirements. Although we have been able to renegotiate pricing and volumes under our contracts from time to time, other wafer manufacturers may be able to enter into new long-term contracts or purchase polysilicon on the spot market at lower prices than those to which we have agreed with our suppliers. If the price we pay for polysilicon is significantly higher than the price paid or produced by our competitors, our competitive cost advantage of producing wafers could decrease despite using substantially less silicon in our manufacturing process relative to conventional manufacturing processes. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our solar power products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. The solar power market is characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as increased efficiency, higher power output and lower cost. Our failure to further refine our wafer manufacturing technology and develop and introduce new lower cost industry standard wafers could cause our wafers to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could impact the ability for us to grow our business. A variety of competing solar power technologies are under development by other companies that could result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected for our products. Our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others, and other technologies may prove more advantageous for the commercialization of solar power products. 18 Table of Contents Our transition from a solar panel manufacturer to a solar wafer manufacturer may make it difficult for us to sell our remaining production from our Devens facility and the solar modules we expect to produce in our China facility at any significant margin over our costs of production. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 26%, 15%, 12% and 12% of our product revenues were generated from sales to IBC Solar AG, Wagner & Co. Solartechnik GmbH, Donauer Solartechnik Vertriebs GmbH and NWT a.s., respectively. Due to the planned significant decline in panel production, it is unclear whether our customers will continue to purchase panels at volumes sufficient enough to sell our expected production from China in the future and we may be required to find other customers for our panels. Consequently, it is possible there could be material fluctuations and further declines in our product revenue that will negatively impact our operating results. Our transition from a solar panel manufacturer to a solar wafer manufacturer could result in the loss of key personnel and difficulty in attracting new personnel. We rely heavily on the services of our key executive officers and key technology personnel. The loss of services of principal members of our management team and key technology personnel could adversely impact our ability to successfully transition into a successful wafer manufacturer. Given the uncertainty of our success as we transition our business, additional demands that will be placed on key personnel and the competition for qualified personnel in our industry, it is possible our highly qualified personnel may seek and find other opportunities during this critical transitional phase of our business development. We also may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to support our anticipated growth or to replace key personnel as needed. We cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed with us for any definite period of time because all of our employees, including our key executives and technologists, serve at-will and may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. We face particular commercial, jurisdictional and legal risks associated with our proposed expansion in China. We expect the cells and panels made for us by Jiawei Solar (Wuhan) Co., Ltd., or Jiawei, will represent a substantial portion of our annual capacity by early 2011. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be materially adversely affected if we are not successful in our subcontracting relationship with Jiawei in China. The success of this relationship and our activities in China in general are subject to the economic, political and legal conditions or developments in China. Examples of economic and political developments that could adversely affect us include government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China remain government-owned. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Additionally, China has historically adopted laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in China or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our overall economic growth and therefore have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. We also face risks associated with Chinese laws and the Chinese legal system. China’s legal system is rapidly evolving and, as a result, the interpretation and enforcement of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform, and legal proceedings in China often involve uncertainties. The legal protections available to us may therefore be uncertain and may be limited. Implementation of Chinese intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in Chinese laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, the intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections available to us in China may not be 19 Table of Contents as effective as in the United States or other countries. In addition, any litigation brought by or against us in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, and the anticipated outcome would be highly uncertain. Although we entered into agreements with Jiawei and began production at our 75 MW wafer facility in Wuhan, China, we are subject to significant risks associated with expanding production in China requiring substantial management by our employees. The completion and start-up of our wafer manufacturing facility in Wuhan or Jiawei’s cell and panel manufacturing facilities may take longer or cost more to complete than anticipated. As a result of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our reliance on Jiawei as a subcontracting manufacturer puts us at risk to the extent that Jiawei cannot manage increasing levels of production Jiawei has needed support from us since we commenced our relationship in 2009. To assist Jiawei in meeting its obligations to us, we loaned Jiawei approximately $12.8 million through December 31, 2010. These loans were made to provide Jiawei with sufficient financing flexibility to establish its cell and panel manufacturing facility as well as for working capital requirements as Jiawei rapidly ramps its operations. If Jiawei is unable to fulfill its obligations to provide cell and panel manufacturing capacity to match our wafer capacity in China, it will negatively impact our ability to increase our production and revenues. Our Agreements with HSTIC and Jiawei subject us to risk of loss of control or ownership of our operations in Wuhan, China if we are not successful in running our operations. If we fail to meet our obligation to repay HSTIC and repurchase its equity interest in our China-based manufacturing affiliate, Evergreen Solar (China) Co., Ltd., or Evergreen China, pursuant to our agreements with HSTIC when due or upon acceleration, we will be required to relinquish our board and management control of, and potentially forfeit our equity interest in, Evergreen China. In addition, if we fail to meet our obligations to Jiawei pursuant to our manufacturing services agreement, we could be required to sell our equity interest in, or the assets of, Evergreen China to Jiawei, or be required to purchase from Jiawei its equity interests in, or the assets of, its Wuhan, China manufacturing subsidiary. As a result of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our growing international operations and customer base require us to comply with complex, multi-national income, value-added and other tax rules, for which our accruals may be insufficient. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide liability for U.S. federal, state and international taxes, including income tax, value-added tax and import and export tax. Although we believe that our estimates of such provisions and accruals are consistent with applicable laws and our contractual relationships with customers and suppliers, no assurance can be given that our provisions and accruals for such taxes have been and will be sufficient. If they are not sufficient, or if our exposure to taxes substantially increases, our financial condition, results of operation, business or prospects may be adversely affected. Increasing protectionist sentiment in the United States and abroad and the imposition of trade barriers subjects our business to the risk of increased costs and presents other challenges to our ability to effectively compete in the United States and abroad. With the shutdown of our Devens facility, substantially all of our wafer manufacturing will be located in China and certain key materials will continue to be sourced from the United States, Europe and other Asian countries. In addition, we expect the largest markets for our products will continue to be in Europe and, to a 20 Table of Contents lesser extent, the United States. As a result, we are subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions in a variety of jurisdictions, including the United States, and we are subject to the difficulties posed by restrictions on foreign trade imposed by the countries in which we do business. A number of trade actions have recently been brought by parties in the United States which aim to restrict the import of certain materials to the United States. One of those actions led to the imposition by the Department of Commerce of significant countervailing and antidumping duties on the framing material we import to the United States from our China-based supplier. As a result we faced increased costs for these materials until we were able to cease the importation of those materials. Although we are shutting down our Devens facility which eliminates issues that may arise related to the importation of manufacturing materials to the United States, we expect we will continue to sell our products from Wuhan, China into the United States and we will need to source certain materials in the United States. It is unclear what other trade barriers might be imposed by the United States or other countries, such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, and how those actions could increase the prices of our Chinese made products, and the parts and materials used to make our products. Any such increases would make our product offering less competitive in Europe, the United States or in other countries and adversely impact our results of operations. If we lose our export license or cannot obtain additional export licenses as needed for the export of high temperature filament, we will be unable to manufacture our wafers and solar panels in China or certain other locations. The high temperature filament we use to make our wafers and solar panels has defense-related applications and, therefore, is a controlled “dual-use” material for which the Department of Commerce requires us to obtain and maintain a license for exports to China. In 2009, we obtained our first export license which has enabled us to manufacture our wafers and solar panels in China to date. We could lose our export license if we fail to manage and control our high temperature filament as required in that license. The Department of Commerce has broad discretion to determine whether certain dual-use materials can or cannot be exported. It is possible that as a result of developing strains in U.S.-China trade relations, the Department may tighten export restrictions. If that were to happen, we might not be able to extend our current export license once it expires or obtain new export licenses as needed when we expand our operations in China or other countries where an export license is required. Without the appropriate export licenses we will be unable to manufacture our wafers and solar panels in China or certain other locations as needed and our manufacturing operations in China or elsewhere will need to cease. Because we utilize highly flammable materials in our manufacturing processes, we are subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We utilize highly flammable materials in our manufacturing processes. By utilizing these materials, we are subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires. Our inability to fill customer orders during an extended business interruption could materially and adversely impact existing distribution partner relationships resulting in market share decreases and reduced revenues. Government subsidies and economic incentives for solar technology distort our marketplace and could cause our revenues to decline, among other reasons, because subsidies and economic incentives we rely on are reduced or our competitors are more successful than we are in obtaining the benefits of government subsidies and economic incentives, which could allow them to sell products at lower costs. We believe that the growth of the majority of our target markets depends on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar technology. Today, while declining, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the conventional electric utility grid. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries have provided subsidies in the form of cost reductions, tax incentives and other incentives to end users, distributors, systems integrators, other resellers and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependency on conventional forms of 21 Table of Contents energy. In the future, these government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, German subsidies are designed to decrease annually, and during 2010, the German government announced additional declines in response to the rapidly declining costs of installing solar systems. In addition, the Emerging Renewables Program in California has finite funds that may not last through the current program period. California subsidies have declined in the past and will continue to decline as cumulative installations exceed stated thresholds. Net metering policies in California, which currently cap net metering based upon aggregate customer peak demand, could also limit the amount of solar power installed within California. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives would likely reduce the size of these markets or result in increased price competition, which could cause our revenues to decline. In addition, China has announced major initiatives to promote the development of its domestic solar industry, including making significant long-term financing available to enable the expansion of local industry participants. By contrast, the Economic Stimulus bill signed by President Obama in February 2009 provides little similar benefits for U.S. solar manufacturers. While we and Jiawei pursue financing and other incentives available to us in China, we are not significant participants in the Chinese solar industry compared to many of our major competitors. To the extent our competitors are successful in obtaining more assistance from the Chinese government than us, we may be at a disadvantage from a financing standpoint. If we are unable to adequately protect our unique intellectual property, we could lose our competitive advantage in the solar power market. Our ability to compete effectively against other solar power technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technology, product designs and manufacturing processes by obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights through a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and also through unfair competition laws. We may not be able to adequately obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and information and unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information we regard as proprietary. We also may need to defend our products against infringement or misappropriation claims, either of which could result in the loss of our competitive advantage in the solar power market and materially harm our business and profitability. We face the following risks in protecting our intellectual property and in developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling our products: • although we have a number of foreign patents and applications, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions, particularly China, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and we may encounter difficulties in protecting and defending our rights in such foreign jurisdictions; • to the extent we license our technology to third parties in foreign countries, we may encounter difficulties in protecting and defending our intellectual property rights against such third parties and others; and • we also rely substantially on trade secret protections to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce; however, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets. In addition, while we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we fail to maintain trade secrets and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may decrease. Licenses for technologies and intellectual property may not be available to us. We have entered into license agreements for technologies and intellectual property rights, including an agreement relating to the manufacture of a portion of the high temperature filament we use to produce String 22 Table of Contents Ribbon wafers. Any of our license agreements may be subject to terms and conditions which may limit our ability to use the licensed intellectual property under certain circumstances. For example, our license to manufacture high temperature filament may terminate if we materially breach the license agreement or if we abandon the construction of a manufacturing facility to exploit the licensed technology. We may need to enter into additional license agreements in the future for other technologies or intellectual property rights of third parties. Such licenses, however, may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Existing regulations and changes to such regulations concerning the electrical utility industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as internal policies and regulations promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electric grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electric grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national, state and local laws and ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. There is also a burden in having to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in potentially significant monetary damages, penalties, adverse publicity or interruptions to our business. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws or regulations we may be required to pay substantial civil or criminal penalties, incur significant capital expenditures, suspend or limit production or cease operations. We use toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals in our research and development and manufacturing activities and generate and discharge hazardous emissions, effluents and wastes from these operations. Any failure by us to control the use of or generation of, or to restrict adequately the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances or wastes or to otherwise comply with the complex, technical environmental regulations governing our activities could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, natural resource damage claims, cleanup costs or other costs, or restrictions or suspensions of our business operations. In addition, under some foreign, federal and state statutes and regulations governing liability for releases of hazardous substances or wastes to the environment, a governmental agency or private party may seek recovery of response costs or damages from generators of the hazardous substances or operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if such party was not responsible for the release or otherwise at fault. Also, federal, state or international environmental laws and regulations may ban or restrict the availability and use of certain hazardous or toxic raw materials that are or may be used in producing our products, and substitute materials may be more costly or unsatisfactory in performance. We believe that we either have all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business or have initiated the process to obtain additional or modified environmental permits needed to conduct our business. While we are not aware of any outstanding, 23 Table of Contents material environmental claims, liabilities or obligations, future developments such as the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, more aggressive enforcement policies, or the discovery of unknown environmental conditions associated with our current or past operations or properties may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any noncompliance with or incurrence of liability under environmental laws may subject us to adverse publicity, damage our reputation and competitive position and adversely affect sales of our products. Our Devens, Massachusetts manufacturing facility has been constructed on part of the former Fort Devens Army base, which is associated with contamination caused by prior military activities on and near the site. Fort Devens closed in the early 1990’s and subsequently underwent environmental remediation according to an agreement between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army. As a condition to the lease for the property, we must not disturb existing groundwater monitoring wells and must allow the U.S. Army access to the property to conduct testing and remedial activities. If environmental contamination is found on the Devens site it could be incorrectly attributed to our activities or the U.S. Army could be required to take additional remedial actions on the Devens site. Any such activities could subject us to liability for environmental remediation. Actions against Lehman Brothers and Barclays to recover damages or shares of our common stock loaned to Lehman Brothers could be expensive, time-consuming and ultimately unsuccessful. In July 2008, we loaned approximately 30 million shares (prior to giving effect to the recent 1-for-6 reverse stock split) of Evergreen Solar’s common stock to Lehman Brothers International (Europe), or LBIE. None of those shares were returned to us upon demand in September 2008, and 12 million of those shares were ultimately transferred to Lehman Brothers Inc., or LBI, and thereafter to Barclays Capital Inc., or Barclays. We are attempting to recover the value of the 30 million shares as of September 2008 by pursuing a claim against LBIE in its UK insolvency proceedings. LBIE has refused, to date, to acknowledge that this claim has any material value, which may lead to litigation to determine the proper amount of the claim. Whatever the claim amount is ultimately determined to be, that amount would not be paid in full, as LBIE is insolvent. We also pursued litigation against LBI and Barclays to recover the 12 million shares that were transferred to them. LBIE and Barclays moved to dismiss that litigation and motions were granted on March 3, 2011. We may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to the pursuit of the foregoing claims and litigation related thereto. Despite our expense and efforts, no assurance can be provided that we will be awarded any damages or recover any of the shares from any Lehman Brothers or Barclays entity. If we were to recover the shares, which is unlikely, their current value is far below their value on the date the shares should have been returned to us by LBIE. If Lehman Brothers’ claims against us arising out of our capped call agreement are successful, our financial position could be materially and adversely affected. As previously disclosed, we received notification from Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. or LOTC, purporting to terminate the capped call transaction that we entered into concurrent with our senior convertible debt offering in June 2008. On September 25, 2009, we received a letter from LOTC demanding payment of $19,992,487 (plus $340,673 in interest) as payment for the purported termination of the capped call transaction. More recently, LOTC increased its demand to no less than $23,643,902 (plus interest). If litigation is commenced, we will likely incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to defend against these claims, and cannot predict the outcome of any such claims. If LOTC’s claims are successful, our financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, imposes an annual limit on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone 24 Table of Contents significant changes in its stock ownership or equity structure. Our ability to use net operating losses may be limited by prior changes in our ownership, by the issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of our outstanding convertible notes, or by the consummation of other transactions. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liabilities for us. Provisions of our outstanding convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our outstanding convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, or may even prevent a third party from acquiring us. For example, upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes. By discouraging an acquisition of us by a third party, these provisions could have the effect of depriving the holders of our common stock of an opportunity to sell their common stock, as applicable, at a premium over prevailing market prices. Unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates could increase the cost to manufacture our products or result in foreign currency exchange losses, which could adversely affect our profits, product orders and market share. The expansion of our distribution network internationally has increased our exposure to fluctuation in currency exchange rates. A substantial portion of our product revenues have been, and are expected to continue to be, denominated in Euros. As a result, a strengthening of the U.S dollar will decrease our expected U.S. dollar revenue and thereby adversely affect our gross and net profit margins. We often purchase equipment and materials internationally in transactions denominated in foreign currency. As a result of significant currency fluctuations in recent periods that are expected to continue, we are exposed to potential increased costs if the U.S. dollar currency loses value relative to the applicable foreign currency. Such increased costs will adversely impact our future financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese Yuan, in which a growing portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated, is subject to somewhat unique potential for valuation changes as the Chinese government is being continually pressured by its trading partners to allow its currency to float in a manner similar to other major currencies. Any increase in the value of the Chinese Yuan may impact our ability to control the cost of our products in the world market. Specifically, the decision by the Chinese government to allow the Yuan to begin to float against the U.S. dollar could significantly increase the labor and other costs incurred in the operation of our Wuhan facility and the cost of materials, parts, components and subassemblies we source in China, thereby having a material and adverse effect on our costs and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. We may in the future depend on cash flow generated by our foreign subsidiaries to make payments on our convertible notes as we execute our business strategy of focusing on our foreign expansion. As we expand our foreign operations, we may in the future depend on cash flows generated by our foreign subsidiaries to make payments on our convertible notes and our other indebtedness. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend upon their operating results and will be subject to applicable laws and the terms of agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries. For example, Evergreen China is currently prohibited from making dividends or other distributions to us until we 25 Table of Contents have repurchased the equity interests in it held by HSTIC. We cannot assure you that cash flow generated by our foreign subsidiaries will be sufficient to service our convertible notes. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The issuance or sale of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities in the market, or the perception of such future sales or issuances, could lead to a decline in the price of our common stock. Any issuance of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities, including for the purposes of financing acquisitions, expanding our business or restructuring our outstanding indebtedness, may have a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. In addition, the perceived risk associated with the possible issuance of a large number of shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into a large number of shares of common stock could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. Subsequent sales of our common stock in the open market or the private placement of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into our common stock could also have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares. If our stock price declines, it may be more difficult for us to, or we may be unable to, raise additional capital. In addition, future sales of substantial amounts of our currently outstanding common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, will have on the market price of our stock. As of February 25, 2011, reflecting the recent 1-for-6 reverse stock split, which became effective on January 1, 2011, we would have had: • approximately 38.7 million shares of common stock outstanding; • approximately 0.3 million shares of common stock underlying options outstanding at a weighted average exercise price of $26.74 per share; • approximately 2.1 million shares of common stock available and reserved for future issuance or future grant under our Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Option and Incentive Plan; • approximately 0.2 million shares of common stock available and reserved for future issuance or future grant under our Amended and Restated 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; • approximately 2.8 million shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of our existing 4% senior convertible notes due 2013 in the aggregate principal amount of $203.8 million at an initial conversion rate of approximately 13.7599 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $72.675 per share); • approximately 14.4 million shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of our outstanding senior secured convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of $165.0 million at an initial conversion rate of approximately 87.5410 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $11.42 per share); and • approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of our new 4% convertible subordinated additional cash notes due 2020 in the aggregate principal amount of $12.6 million at an initial conversion rate of approximately 229.89 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $4.35 per share), which amount of shares also includes make whole shares and additional shares that would be required upon conversion assuming the notes had been converted as of February 25, 2011. 26 Table of Contents Conversion of the new notes, or certain other occurrences with respect to our currently outstanding series of notes, will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. To the extent we issue common stock upon conversion of the notes, such conversion could dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. Sales of our common stock in the public market or sales of any of our other securities could dilute ownership and earnings per share, and even the perception that such sales could occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the existence of our new notes and existing notes may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants who expect that the conversion of the notes could depress the prices of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could also decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock made after this offering or the perception that such sales could occur. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders and subject us to litigation. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The closing sale prices of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Market and the Nasdaq Capital Market and giving effect to the recent 1-for-6 reverse stock split, have ranged from $1.96 to $7.92 for the 52-week period from February 26, 2010 to February 25, 2011. Our operating performance will significantly affect the market price of our common stock. To the extent we are unable to compete effectively and gain market share or the other factors described in this risk factors section affect us, our stock price will likely decline. The market price of our common stock also may be adversely impacted by broad market and industry fluctuations regardless of our operating performance, including general economic and technology trends. The Nasdaq Global Market and the Nasdaq Capital Market have, from time to time, experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies such as ours have been extremely volatile. In addition, some companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We may be involved in securities class action litigation in the future. This litigation often results in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and market price of our common stock have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, including: • the amount and timing of expenses associated with our research and development programs and our ability to develop and improve our industry standard wafer; • the rate and cost at which we are able to expand our wafer manufacturing capacity and drive acceptance in the market place; • our ability and the terms upon which we are able to raise capital sufficient to finance the expansion of our wafer manufacturing capacity and our sales and marketing efforts; • delays associated with the supply of specialized materials necessary for the manufacture of our wafers; • charges resulting from replacing existing equipment or technology with new or improved equipment or technology as part of our strategy to expand our wafer manufacturing capacity; • developments in the competitive environment, including the introduction of new products or technological advancements by our competitors; • the timing of adding the personnel necessary to execute our growth plan; and • the other risks and uncertainties described in “Risk Factors.” We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly, particularly as we develop our internal infrastructure to support our anticipated growth in China. If our product gross margins in any quarter 27 Table of Contents does increase correspondingly, our net losses for that period will increase. Moreover, given that a significant portion of our operating expenses is largely fixed in nature and cannot be quickly reduced, if our product sales are delayed or below expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. For these reasons, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on results of operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts in any quarter, the market value of our common stock would likely decrease, and it could decrease rapidly and substantially. If we fail to maintain compliance with the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market and Nasdaq delists our common stock, the market liquidity and price of our common stock will likely decline and such delisting will permit the holders of our existing notes to require us to repurchase their notes, which we likely would be unable to do. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “ESLR.” On July 1, 2010, we received a deficiency letter from the Nasdaq Global Market stating that, based on the closing bid price of our common stock for the 30 consecutive business days preceding such date, we no longer meet the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market under Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1). In response to the delisting notice, we submitted an application to Nasdaq to move our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market which became effective on December 29, 2010, and implemented a 1-for-6 reverse stock split, which became effective on January 1, 2011. Following the implementation of the reverse split, our share price increased above $1 for ten trading days and on January 18, 2011, Nasdaq notified us that we have regained compliance with the minimum price rule and that the matter is now closed. It is possible, however, that our stock may not continue to meet the Nasdaq bid price requirement, in which case we would be unable to continue to meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, for that or any other reason, our stockholders will be adversely affected. Among other adverse consequences of a delisting, there will likely cease to be a trading market for our shares other than in the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. It could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. In addition, in the event that our common stock is delisted, the holders of our existing notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their notes, which we likely would be unable to do. The issuance of equity or debt securities under our shelf registration statement could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-3 that became effective on December 30, 2010. This registration statement registered up to an aggregate offering price of $200 million in debt and equity securities, including shares of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants to purchase common stock and/or preferred stock, and units consisting of two or more of these classes or series of securities. We may sell any combination of these securities, over a period of up to 3 years. If we issue all of the securities included in the shelf registration, there could be a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock and an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain our future earnings, if any, to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business 28 Table of Contents and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in the value of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain its current price. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, each as amended, as well as Delaware law, could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control transaction or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. We also have a staggered board of directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. If a tender offer, change in control transaction, takeover attempt or change in our board of directors is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of stockholders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 27,227,668 shares of preferred stock, with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our common stock; • limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 