ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. For more information regarding the forward-looking statements contained in this report, see “Concerns Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Other factors may also exist that we cannot anticipate or that we currently do not consider to be significant based on currently available information. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future results. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY, PRODUCTS, FINANCIAL RESULTS AND OPERATIONS We may need to raise significant additional capital in order to continue to grow our business and fund our operations, as planned, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We will need to generate cash internally or raise significant additional capital to fund our planned expansion of manufacturing facilities beyond the Devens facility, to acquire complementary businesses and obtain raw materials or necessary technologies. If adequate capital does not become available when needed on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, further develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. In such a case, the stock price of our common stock would likely be materially and adversely impacted. Our ability to raise capital will be severely hampered by adverse changes in general economic market conditions. The U.S. economy has undergone unprecedented turmoil amid stock market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, tightening of the credit markets, softness in the housing markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, reduced consumer spending, and continuing economic uncertainties. This turmoil and the uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our ability to obtain debt or equity financing of our operations. The cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected as concerns about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease, to provide funding to borrowers. If these market and economic conditions continue, they may limit our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this severe global economic downturn. 16 Table of Contents We must continue to invest significantly in research and development to support our unique wafer technology, and these efforts may not result in continued and necessary improvement in our technology. If our continuing development efforts regarding our wafer manufacturing technologies are not successful, and we are unable to increase the efficiency and decrease the costs of our manufacturing process, including even lower use of silicon beyond the 3.9 grams per watt we use today, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce the price of our products, which might prevent our products from gaining wide acceptance, and our gross margins may be negatively impacted. Evaluating our business and future prospects may be difficult due to the rapidly changing market landscape. Although we were formed in 1994 to research and develop crystalline silicon technology for use in manufacturing solar power products and began shipping product in 1997, we first shipped commercial products in September 2001. Relative to the entire solar industry, we have shipped only a limited number of solar power panels and have recognized limited revenues generated by products we have manufactured. The solar power market is rapidly evolving and is experiencing technological advances, manufacturers in low cost manufacturing regions and new market entrants. Our future success will require us to scale our manufacturing capacity significantly beyond the capacity of our Devens facility or find third parties to manufacture our products or license our proprietary technologies, and our business model, technologies and processes are unproven at significantly larger scale. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a growing and rapidly evolving market. We have a history of losses, expect to incur substantial further losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which in turn could materially decrease the value of our common stock. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses. Principally as a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2009. We expect to incur additional losses until our Chinese facility reaches full capacity, and if we do not achieve our expected production targets and cost reductions we may not become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future if we are not able to sufficiently expand capacity or continue to reduce our costs, which in turn could materially decrease the market value of our common stock. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase as we seek to: • expand our manufacturing operations, whether domestically or internationally; • develop our distribution network; • continue investing in research and development; • implement internal systems and infrastructure to support our growth; and • hire additional personnel. We do not know whether our revenues will grow at all or grow rapidly enough to absorb these costs, and our limited operating history makes it difficult to assess the extent of these expenses or their impact on our operating results. We are subject to certain liabilities based upon our relationship with Sovello, Sovello’s banks and other parties which may adversely impact our business or our funds available for our operations. Throughout 2009, Sovello operated under waivers from its bank syndicate of certain loan covenant violations. On January 28, 2010, Sovello’s bank syndicate terminated their loan agreement but has not yet demanded repayment of the outstanding loan, approximately 5.8 million Euros of which we have guaranteed. Further, in light of a European Commission decision, Sovello may be required to repay to the German government 9.1 million Euros (plus approximately 2.5 17 Table of Contents million Euros in interest) which represents a portion of the grants it received. If these matters are not satisfactorily resolved, Sovello may need to declare insolvency which could result in further financial obligations for us. Alternatively, Sovello may be sold which we expect would require us to provide limited additional funding to Sovello. As such, we recorded charges of approximately $8.1 million for payments under our bank loan guarantee (that was paid on February 8, 2010) and $7.3 million for estimated payments relating to undertakings with Sovello’s bank and for other expected costs with the Company’s undertaking to pay approximately 2 million Euros to Sovello in connection with Sovello’s repayment of the SME Bonus (as discussed below) representing a portion of the recorded charges. The European Commission decision will require Sovello to repay amounts paid to Sovello as an “SME Bonus” available only to small and medium-sized companies. The European Commission concluded that Sovello did not qualify for the SME Bonus as had previously been determined by the European Commission. The European Commission determined that Sovello’s application for the SME Bonus was incomplete and therefore inaccurate, and that Sovello’s shareholders intentionally structured Sovello to qualify for the SME Bonus. Although Sovello’s management and shareholders believe that Sovello appropriately qualified for the SME Bonus and the decision may be appealed, no assurance can be given that any appeal will be made or that any appeal would succeed. German authorities are investigating the propriety of the grant application made by Sovello. European Community authorities may also investigate. No assurance can be made regarding the additional liabilities for additional funding of Sovello or otherwise that may be associated with the European Commission’s decision or the expected sale or insolvency of Sovello given the uncertainties associated with these matters and any sale and the insolvency process. Our future success depends on our ability to increase our manufacturing capacity beyond our Devens facility, license our technologies or otherwise outsource the manufacturing of our products. Our inability to increase our production capacity directly or successfully outsource the manufacturing of our products will limit our growth potential and impair our operating results and financial condition. Our ability to plan, construct and equip additional manufacturing facilities is subject to significant risk and uncertainty, including: • the completion of any facilities will be subject to the risks inherent in the establishment of a new manufacturing facility, including risks of delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be out of our control, such as delays in government approvals, burdensome permit conditions and delays in the customization, delivery, and installation of manufacturing equipment from numerous suppliers; and • we may be required to depend on third parties or strategic partnerships that we establish in the development and operation of additional production capacity, which may subject us to risks that such third parties do not fulfill their obligations to us under our arrangements with them. If we are unable to develop and successfully operate additional manufacturing facilities, establish contract manufacturing relationships or license our technologies, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to scale our business to the extent necessary to improve results of operations and achieve profitability. Moreover, there can be no assurance that if we do expand our manufacturing capacity, establish contract manufacturing relationships or license our technologies, that we will be able to generate customer demand for our solar power products at these production levels or that we will increase our revenues or achieve profitability. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for certain materials, including key components for our solar power products and capital equipment could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and timely deliver our products. We manufacture products using materials and components procured from a limited number of suppliers and certain materials and components we use are proprietary or available only from a limited number of sources, primarily our wafer furnaces and high temperature filament. Our materials and components supply chain, therefore, makes us more susceptible to quality issues, shortages and price changes. If we fail to develop, maintain or expand 18 Table of Contents relationships with suppliers, or if our suppliers fail to supply good quality materials on time that meet our cost requirements we may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely and cost-effective manner. If the market price of polysilicon continues to decrease, we could be at a significant competitive disadvantage because we have entered into multi-year polysilicon contracts. The market price for polysilicon has been decreasing steadily since mid-2008. Polysilicon prices are expected to continue to decline and could fall below the price we have contracted for with our long-term silicon suppliers. We may not be able to modify the contracted price charged to us by our suppliers. Other wafer manufacturers may be able to enter into long-term contracts or buy polysilicon on the spot market at lower prices than those at which we have contracted with our suppliers. If the price we pay for polysilicon is significantly higher than the price paid by our competitors, our competitive cost advantage of producing wafers could decrease. Our inability to reduce a key manufacturing cost to the same degree as our competitors could adversely affect our ability to price our products competitively and generate favorable profit margins. Our solar power products may not gain market acceptance, which would prevent us from achieving increased revenues and market share. The development of a successful market for our solar power products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against other solar power products on the basis of cost, quality and performance; • our failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against conventional energy sources and alternative distributed generation technologies, such as wind and biomass, on the basis of cost, quality and performance; • whether or not customers will accept our new panel designs under development; and • our failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with distributors, systems integrators, project developers and other resellers, as well as strategic partners. If our solar power products fail to gain market acceptance, we would be unable to increase our revenues and market share and to achieve and sustain profitability. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our solar power products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. The solar power market is characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as increased efficiency, higher power output and lower price. Our failure to further refine our wafer manufacturing technology and develop and introduce new lower cost solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. A variety of competing solar power technologies are under development by other companies that could result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected for our solar power products. Our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others, and other technologies may prove more advantageous for the commercialization of solar power products. Our ability to increase market share and revenues depends on our ability to successfully maintain our existing distribution relationships and expand our distribution channels. We currently sell our solar power products primarily to domestic and international distributors, system integrators, project developers and other resellers, which typically resell our products to end users on a global basis. During our year ended December 31, 2009, we sold our solar power products to approximately 90 distributors, system integrators, project developers and other resellers. Approximately 77% of our products were sold to just 10 19 Table of Contents of these distribution partners. If we are unable to successfully maintain our existing distribution relationships and expand our distribution channels, our revenues and future prospects will be materially harmed. As we seek to grow our revenues by entering new markets in which we have little experience selling our products, our ability to increase market share and revenues will depend substantially on our ability to expand our distribution channels by identifying, developing and maintaining relationships with resellers. We may be unable to enter into relationships with resellers in the markets we target or on terms and conditions favorable to us, which could prevent us from entering these markets or entering these markets in accordance with our plans. Our ability to enter into and maintain relationships with resellers will be influenced by the relationships between these resellers and our competitors, market acceptance of our products and our lower brand recognition as a newer entrant and smaller volume producer. Our dependence on a small number of distribution partners may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our product revenues. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 17%, 15% and 14% of our product revenues were generated from sales to IBC Solar AG, Ralos Vetriebs and Wagner & Co. Solartechnik GmbH. These companies are in various stages of development and the loss of sales to any of them or the decline of any of their businesses could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We anticipate that sales of our solar power products to a limited number of distribution partners will continue to account for a significant portion of our total product revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our product revenues and negatively impact our operating results: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant distribution partners; • selection by one or more of our significant distribution partners of products competitive with ours; • loss of one or more of our significant distribution partners and our failure to recruit additional or replacement distribution partners; and • failure of any of our significant distribution partners to make timely payment of our invoices. Our current long-term customer contracts for our products will result in a significant portion of our sales being concentrated among a limited number of customers in 2010 and 2011. The failure of one or more customers to purchase or pay for our products in accordance with their contractual commitments could significantly decrease our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2008, we entered into long-term sales agreement commitments with several customers that extend until the end of 2013. These customers have agreed to purchase, in the aggregate, a substantial portion of our estimated total manufacturing output for 2010. The failure of these customers to purchase product as agreed in our contracts, or pay for product purchased, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Given the nature of the market for our products and the terms of our customer contracts, we were required to reduce our prices, reduce contracted volumes and modify other payment terms on occasion during 2009. Further price reductions will result in lower revenues and decreased margins. Our sales contracts allow for customers to request price changes based upon current market conditions; and we may have to amend contracts for volumes or pricing, as we did during 2009, in order to remain competitive in the marketplace in the future. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Consistent with standard practice in the solar industry, the duration of our product warranties is lengthy. Our current standard product warranty includes a five-year warranty period for defects in material and workmanship and a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance beyond specified levels. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with industry practice. Due to the long warranty period, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped product and recognized revenues. Although we have sold solar panels since 1997, the substantial majority of them have been operating for less than four years. The possibility of future product 20 Table of Contents failures could cause us to incur substantial expenses to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline. The success of our business depends on the continuing contributions of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain new qualified employees, especially in China. If we were to lose the services of any of our executive officers and key employees, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, over the next 24 months, we must hire and retain about 175 employees in China, including 10 in key management and technology positions. Because we utilize highly flammable materials in our manufacturing processes, we are subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We utilize highly flammable materials in our manufacturing processes. By utilizing these materials, we are subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires. Our inability to fill customer orders during an extended business interruption could materially adversely impact existing distribution partner relationships resulting in market share decreases and reduced revenues. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar technology could cause our revenues to decline. We believe that the growth of the majority of our target markets depends on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar technology. Today, while declining, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries have provided subsidies in the form of cost reductions, tax incentives and other incentives to end users, distributors, systems integrators, other resellers and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. In the future, these government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, German subsidies decline at a rate of 7.0% to 10.0% per year (based on the type and size of the PV system) and the German government recently announced additional declines during mid-2010. In addition, the Emerging Renewables Program in California has finite funds that may not last through the current program period. California subsidies have declined in the past and will continue to decline as cumulative installations exceed stated thresholds. Net metering policies in California, which currently only require each investor owned utility to provide net metering up to 2.5% of its aggregate customer peak demand, could also limit the amount of solar power installed within California. In the United States, the 30% Investment Tax Credit for solar energy has been extended through 2016. The Economic Stimulus Bill just signed by President Obama offers additional benefits, however, until the details of the implementation of this bill are solidified, it is unknown how rapidly or to what magnitude the solar industry will be effected. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives would likely reduce the size of these markets or result in increased price competition, which could cause our revenues to decline. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our revenues would not significantly increase and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. The market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenues to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: • cost-effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; 21 Table of Contents • performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; • success of alternative distributed generation technologies such as fuel cells, wind power and micro turbines; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease when the United States or global economy slows; • continued deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry; and • availability of government subsidies and incentives. If we are unable to protect our unique intellectual property adequately, we could lose our competitive advantage in the solar power market. Our ability to compete effectively against competing solar power technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technology, product designs and manufacturing processes by obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our intellectual property rights through a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and also through unfair competition laws. We may not be able to obtain, maintain or enforce adequately our intellectual property and may need to defend our products against infringement or misappropriation claims, either of which could result in the loss of our competitive advantage in the solar power market and materially harm our business and profitability. We face the following risks in protecting our intellectual property and in developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling our products: • although we have a number of foreign patents and applications, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions, particularly China, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and we may encounter difficulties in protecting and defending our rights in such foreign jurisdictions; • to the extent we license our technology to third parties in foreign countries, we may encounter difficulties in protecting and defending our intellectual property rights against such third parties and others; and • we also rely substantially on trade secret protections to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce; however, we may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. We may be unable to protect adequately or enforce our proprietary information, particularly with its use in our new China manufacturing location and efforts to partner with a Chinese supplier to further develop our proprietary technology, which may result in its unauthorized use, reduced revenues or otherwise reduce our ability to compete. Our business and competitive position depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any manufacturing processes and solar power products that we develop. Despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any patents issued in connection with our efforts to develop new technology for solar power products may not be broad enough to protect all of the potential uses of the technology or may provide us with limited ability to restrict third parties from using our technology in certain jurisdictions like China. We pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful 22 Table of Contents protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we fail to maintain trade secrets and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. Licenses for technologies and intellectual property may not be available to us. We have entered into license agreements for technologies and intellectual property rights, including an agreement relating to the manufacture of high temperature filament we intend to use to produce String Ribbon wafers. Any of our license agreements may be subject to terms and conditions which may limit our ability to use the licensed intellectual property under certain circumstances. For example, our license to manufacture high temperature filament may terminate if we materially breach the license agreement or if we abandon the construction of a manufacturing facility to exploit the licensed technology. We may need to enter into additional license agreements in the future for other technologies or intellectual property rights of third parties. Such licenses, however, may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Existing regulations and changes to such regulations concerning the electrical utility industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as internal policies and regulations promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electric grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electric grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national, state and local laws and ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. There is also a burden in having to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us and our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in potentially significant monetary damages, penalties, adverse publicity or interruptions to our business. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws or regulations we may be required to pay substantial civil or criminal penalties, incur significant capital expenditures, suspend or limit production or cease operations. We use toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals in our research and development and manufacturing activities, and generate and discharge hazardous emissions, effluents and wastes from these operations. Any failure by us to control the use of or generation of, or to restrict adequately the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances or wastes or to otherwise comply with the complex, technical environmental regulations governing our activities could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, natural resource damage claims, cleanup costs or other costs, or restrictions or suspensions of our business operations. In addition, under some foreign, federal and state statutes and regulations governing liability for releases of hazardous substances or wastes to the environment, a governmental agency or private party may seek recovery of response costs or damages from generators of the hazardous substances or operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if such party was not responsible for the release or otherwise at fault. Also, federal, state or international 23 Table of Contents environmental laws and regulations may ban or restrict the availability and use of certain hazardous or toxic raw materials that are or may be used in producing our products, and substitute materials may be more costly or unsatisfactory in performance. We believe that we either have all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business or have initiated the process to obtain additional or modified environmental permits needed to conduct our business. While we are not aware of any outstanding, material environmental claims, liabilities or obligations, future developments such as the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, more aggressive enforcement policies, or the discovery of unknown environmental conditions associated with our current or past operations or properties may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any noncompliance with or incurrence of liability under environmental laws may subject us to adverse publicity, damage our reputation and competitive position and adversely affect sales of our products. Our Devens, Massachusetts manufacturing facility has been constructed on part of the former Fort Devens Army base, which is associated with contamination caused by prior military activities on and near the site. Fort Devens closed in the early 1990’s and subsequently underwent environmental remediation according to an agreement between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, and the U.S. Army. As a condition to the lease for the property, we must not disturb existing groundwater monitoring wells and must allow the U.S. Army access to the property to conduct testing and remedial activities. If environmental contamination is found on the Devens site it could be incorrectly attributed to our activities or the U.S. Army could be required to take additional remedial actions on the Devens site. Any such activities could disrupt the operation of our manufacturing facility. Noncompliance with noise regulations at our Devens facility may result in an interruption to our manufacturing which would have a material adverse affect on our production levels and our business. We have had difficulty complying with noise limitations at our Devens facility. In late-March 2009, initial complaints regarding noncompliance with applicable noise restrictions were made to the Devens Enterprise Commission (or the DEC), the governmental authority that regulates development and zoning within the Devens Enterprise Zone where our Devens, Massachusetts manufacturing facility is located. After the issuance by the DEC of two noncompliance notices, initial efforts by us to remedy the noncompliance and various administrative proceedings, on July 14, 2009, the DEC adopted a Resolution which required us to attenuate certain noises being generated by the Devens facility in violation of the DEC’s noise regulations by September 2009. Despite our efforts to meet our obligations under the Resolution, we have still not received a permanent certificate of occupancy for the facility. Our temporary certificate of occupancy for the facility has been extended until August 2010 but we cannot be certain when or whether we will obtain a permanent certificate of occupancy. Failure to obtain a permanent certificate of occupancy, extend our temporary certificate of occupancy or certain noncompliance with applicable noise regulations could result in a shutdown of our manufacturing facility and have a material adverse affect on our production levels and our business. Litigation against Lehman Brothers and Barclays to recover shares of our common stock loaned to Lehman Brothers could be expensive, time-consuming and ultimately unsuccessful. We filed suit in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District Court of New York against Barclays and Lehman Brothers entities seeking the return of 12.2 million shares of our common stock previously loaned by us to Lehman Brothers in July 2008. In February 2009, Lehman Brothers and Barclays filed motions to dismiss our claims. We have opposed the motions to dismiss but expect Lehman Brothers and Barclays to vigorously support their motions and to continue to defend their position against our claims. We may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to the litigation. Despite our expense and efforts, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to recover any of the shares or be awarded any damages from Lehman Brothers or Barclays. If Lehman Brothers’ claims against us arising out of our capped call agreement are successful, our financial position would be materially adversely affected. As previously disclosed, we have received notification from Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. (“LB OTCD”) purporting to terminate the capped call transaction that we entered into concurrent with our senior convertible debt offering in June 2008. On September 25, 2009, we received a letter from LB OTCD requesting payment of $19,992,487 (plus $340,673 in interest) as payment for the purported termination of the capped call transaction. If litigation is commenced, we have reason to believe that LB OTCD will claim at least $5 million more (plus interest) than previously claimed amounts. We may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to defend against these claims, and cannot predict the outcome of any such claims. If LB OTCD’s claims are successful, our financial position would be materially adversely affected. In light of economic uncertainty and extremely difficult credit markets, our expansion plans may be delayed and we may not be able to fulfill customer contracts for shipments in 2011 and beyond. Continued economic uncertainty and disarray in the world credit markets may adversely impact our previously announced long-term expansion plans. While we expect to have enough capacity from our new facility in Devens to 24 Table of Contents meet our long term sales contracts in 2010, we are currently committed to supply aggregate volumes to customers beginning in 2011 that will exceed the expected capacity of our Devens facility. We do not know whether we will be able to raise additional financing or whether we will be able to do so on favorable terms and in the necessary timeframe. If the cost and availability of capital does not improve significantly in the next few quarters, we may need to delay our expansion plans. If we delay our expansion plans and cannot increase the production of our products by engaging contract manufacturers or otherwise outsourcing our manufacturing requirements, as early as the second quarter of 2011 we may not be able to deliver the volumes of solar panels we have agreed to supply pursuant to our long-term customer supply agreements. The significant amount and the structure of our 2008 offering of senior convertible notes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred a significant amount of debt and substantial debt service requirements as a result of the offering of our senior convertible notes completed in July 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we had $373.8 million of senior convertible notes outstanding, in addition to $33 million of debt due to the Chinese government associated with the financing of our Wuhan, China expansion. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient and on terms reasonable to us to support our liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including our senior convertible notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. We may incur additional indebtedness. If we do so, our increased debt service requirements may adversely affect our ability to meet our payment obligations on our currently outstanding senior convertible notes and otherwise successfully grow and operate our business. Unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates could increase the cost to manufacture our products or result in foreign currency exchange losses, which could adversely affect our profits, product orders and market share. The expansion of our distribution network internationally has increased our exposure to fluctuation in currency exchange rates. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 69% of our product revenues were denominated in Euros. The portion of our product revenues that are denominated in Euros are expected to increase in future periods based on our multi-year solar panel supply agreements, a portion of which are denominated in Euros and other expected customers. The combined estimated current sales value of these agreements is approximately $1.8 billion at December 31, 2009 exchange rates. These panel supply agreements provide the general terms and conditions pursuant to which certain customers will purchase from us specified annual quantities of solar panels which primarily began in the second half of 2008 and continue through 2013. As a result, a 25 Table of Contents strengthening of the U.S dollar will decrease our expected U.S. dollar revenue under these agreements and thereby adversely affect our gross and net profit margins. From time to time, we purchase equipment and materials internationally with delivery dates as much as six to twelve months or more in the future. There have been significant currency fluctuations in recent periods. To the extent that any purchase obligations are denominated in foreign currency, we are exposed to potential increased costs if the U.S. dollar currency loses value relative to the applicable foreign currency, which will adversely impacting our future financial condition and results of operations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, imposes an annual limit on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its stock ownership or equity structure. Our ability to use net operating losses may be limited by prior changes in our ownership, by the issuance of shares of common stock under this offering, by the issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the Notes, by the issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of our senior convertible notes, or by the consummation of other transactions. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liabilities for us. Provisions of our senior convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the senior convertible notes we issued could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, or may even prevent a third party from acquiring us. For example, upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes, or, upon certain change of control transactions, holders of the notes may elect to convert all or a portion of the notes. We may also be required to increase the conversion rate for conversions in connection with certain fundamental changes. By discouraging an acquisition of us by a third party, these provisions could have the effect of depriving the holders of our common stock of an opportunity to sell their common stock, as applicable, at a premium over prevailing market prices. We face particular commercial, jurisdictional and legal risks associated with our proposed expansion in China and our subcontracting relationship with Jiawei. We expect the cells and panels made for us by Jiawei will represent a substantial portion of our annual capacity by early 2011. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects could be materially adversely affected if we are not successful in our subcontracting relationship with Jiawei in China. The success of this relationship and our activities in China in general are subject to the economic, political and legal conditions or developments in China. Examples of economic and political developments that could adversely affect us include government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China remain government owned. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Additionally, China has historically adopted laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in China or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our overall economic growth and therefore have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. 26 Table of Contents We also face risks associated with Chinese laws and the Chinese legal system. China’s legal system is rapidly evolving and, as a result, the interpretation and enforcement of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and legal proceedings in China often involve uncertainties. The legal protections available to us may therefore be uncertain and may be limited. Implementation of Chinese intellectual property related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in Chinese laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, the intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections available to us in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. In addition, any litigation brought by or against us in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and the anticipated outcome would be highly uncertain. Although we have completed agreements with Jiawei and have begun construction of a planned 100 MW facility in Wuhan, China, we are subject to significant risk associated with expanding production in China requiring substantial management by our employees. Our wafer manufacturing facility in Wuhan or Jiawei’s cell and panel manufacturing facilities may take longer or cost more to complete than anticipated. Further, expansion beyond the first 100 MW facility may be dependent upon its initial successful execution, and funding from the Chinese government may be less than anticipated or may not be available at all, potentially requiring significantly more capital resources by us. As a result of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects may be materially adversely affected. Our growing international operations and customer base require us to comply with complex, multi-national income, value-added and other tax rules, our accruals for which may be insufficient. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide liability for U.S. federal, state and international taxes, including income tax, value added tax, import and export tax. Although we believe that our estimates of such provisions and accruals are consistent with applicable laws and our contractual relationships with customers and suppliers, no assurance can be given that our provisions and accruals for such taxes have been and will be sufficient. If they are not sufficient, or our exposure to taxes substantially increases, our financial condition, results of operation, business or prospects may be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The issuance or sale of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities in the market, or the perception of such future sales or issuances, could lead to a decline in the price of our common stock. Any issuance of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities, including for the purposes of financing acquisitions and the expansion of our business, may have a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. In addition, the perceived risk associated with the possible issuance of a large number of shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into a large number of shares could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. Subsequent sales of our common stock in the open market or the private placement of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into our common stock could also have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares. If our stock price declines, it may be more difficult for us to or we may be unable to raise additional capital. In addition, future sales of substantial amounts of our currently outstanding common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, will have on the market price of our stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had: • 207,809,919 shares of common stock outstanding; 27 Table of Contents • 4,095,724 shares of common stock underlying options outstanding at a weighted average exercise price of $4.20 per share; • 1,520,843 shares of common stock available and reserved for future issuance or future grant under our Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Option and Incentive Plan; • 117,312 shares of common stock available and reserved for future issuance or future grant under our Amended and Restated 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and • 30,856,538 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of our outstanding senior convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of $373.8 million at an initial conversion rate of approximately 82.56 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $12.11 per share). In connection with a multi-year polysilicon supply agreement and pursuant to a stockholders agreement, each of which we entered into with OCI Company Ltd., formerly DC Chemical Co., Ltd. (“OCI”), in April 2007, OCI owns 10,750,000 transfer restricted shares of our common stock. The restrictions on the stock will lapse upon the satisfaction of certain conditions related to OCI’s delivery of polysilicon under the supply agreement, at which time we will be obligated to file a registration statement pursuant to which such shares will become freely tradable. We currently expect OCI to satisfy this delivery obligation in early 2010. Three stockholders own, or claim to own, a large portion of our outstanding voting power and may be able to influence significantly the outcome of any stockholder vote. OCI owns 15,698,125 shares of our common stock (which number includes 10,750,000 shares of transfer restricted common stock, which have full voting rights), Invesco Ltd. beneficially owns 11,767,441 shares of our common stock and BlackRock Inc. beneficially owns 11,066,121 shares of our common stock., representing respectively approximately 7.6%, 5.7% and 5.3% of our voting power outstanding as of February 12, 2010. Accordingly, these stockholders can significantly influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. The interests of these investors may differ from yours and they may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. In addition, pursuant to the stockholders agreement we entered into with OCI, OCI has the right to purchase securities in future offerings we may make. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing, or deterring a change of control of our company, and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders and subject us to litigation. Our common stock is quoted on The Nasdaq Global Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The closing sale prices of our common stock, as reported by The Nasdaq Global Market, have ranged from $1.00 to $2.79 for the 52-week period from February 14, 2009 to February 12, 2010. Our operating performance will significantly affect the market price of our common stock. To the extent we are unable to compete effectively and gain market share or the other factors described in this risk factors section affect us, our stock price will likely decline. The market price of our common stock also may be adversely impacted by broad market and industry fluctuations regardless of our operating performance, including general economic and technology trends. The Nasdaq Global Market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies such as ours have been extremely volatile. In addition, some companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We may be involved in securities class action litigation in the future. This litigation often results in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and market price of our common stock have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, including: 28 Table of Contents • the size and timing of orders from distribution partners for shipments of our products; • the rate and cost at which we are able to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, including the rate and cost at which we are able to implement advances in our manufacturing technology; • our ability to establish and expand key distribution partners and supplier relationships; • our ability and the terms upon which we are able to raise capital sufficient to finance the expansion of our manufacturing capacity and our sales and marketing efforts; • our ability to complete our Wuhan, China facility and other potential capacity expansions within budget and within the time frame that we expect; • the amount and timing of expenses associated with our research and development programs and our ability to develop enhancements to our manufacturing processes and our products; • delays associated with the supply of specialized materials necessary for the manufacture of our solar power products; • our ability to execute our cost reduction programs; • charges resulting from replacing existing equipment or technology with new or improved equipment or technology as part of our strategy to expand our manufacturing capacity and to decrease our per unit manufacturing cost; • developments in the competitive environment, including the introduction of new products or technological advancements by our competitors; • the timing of adding the personnel necessary to execute our growth plan; and • the other risks and uncertainties described in “Risk Factors.” We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly, particularly as we develop our internal infrastructure to support our anticipated growth in China. If our product revenues in any quarter do not increase correspondingly, our net losses for that period will increase. Moreover, given that a significant portion of our operating expenses is largely fixed in nature and cannot be quickly reduced, if our product revenues are delayed or below expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. For these reasons, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on results of operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts in any quarter, the market value of our common stock would likely decrease, and it could decrease rapidly and substantially. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain our future earnings, if any, to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in the value of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain its current price. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. 29 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, each as amended, as well as Delaware law, could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control transaction or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. We also have a staggered board of directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. If a tender offer, change in control transaction, takeover attempt or change in our board of directors is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 27,227,668 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our common stock; • limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have in the past and we may in the future issue additional shares of authorized preferred stock at any time. 