ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. For more information regarding the forward-looking statements contained in this report, see “Forwarding Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Evergreen Solar. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Industry, Products, Financial Results and Operations Evaluating our business and future prospects may be difficult due to the rapidly changing market landscape. There is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. Although we were formed in 1994 to research and develop crystalline silicon technology for use in manufacturing solar power products and began shipping product from our pilot manufacturing facility in 1997, we first shipped commercial products from our Marlboro manufacturing facility in September 2001. Relative to the entire solar industry, we have shipped only a limited number of solar power modules and have recognized limited revenues. The market we are addressing is rapidly evolving and is experiencing technological advances and new market entrants. Our future success will require us to scale our manufacturing capacity significantly beyond the capacity of our Marlboro, Massachusetts manufacturing facility, and our business model and technology are unproven at significant scale. Moreover, EverQ, our strategic partnership with Q-Cells and REC, is only in the early stages of expansion and we have limited experience upon which to predict whether it will continue to be successful. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and 15 Table of Contents challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a growing and rapidly evolving market. We have a history of losses, expect to incur substantial further losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which may decrease the market value of our stock. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses, including a net loss of $26.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Principally as a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $119.7 million as of December 31, 2006. We expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future which could materially decrease the market value of our common stock. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we seek to: • expand our manufacturing operations, whether domestically or internationally, including EverQ; • develop our distribution network; • continue to research and develop our products and manufacturing technologies; • implement internal systems and infrastructure in conjunction with our growth; and • hire additional personnel. We do not know whether our revenues will grow at all or grow rapidly enough to absorb these expenses, and our limited operating history makes it difficult to assess the extent of these expenses or their impact on our operating results. We may need to raise significant additional capital in order to fund our operations and to continue to grow our business, which subjects us to the risk that we may be unable to maintain or grow our business as planned and that our stockholders may be subject to substantial additional dilution. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, combined with our ability to access capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our planned capital programs, fund our current commitments with EverQ and fund our operating expenditures over the next twelve months. We may be required to secure additional capital to respond to competitive pressures, and/or acquire complementary businesses provide further funding for EverQ, secure silicon and other raw materials, or necessary technologies. We do not know whether or not we will be able to secure additional financing or financing on terms favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, further develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. In such a case, our stock price would likely be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible or exchangeable securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced. These newly issued securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. Our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity and therefore to increase revenue and achieve profitability depends to a large extent upon the success of EverQ. EverQ is subject to numerous risks, many of which are outside of our control, and we cannot assure you that EverQ will achieve its objective or otherwise be successful. If EverQ is not successful, our business would be materially and adversely harmed and our stock price would decline. EverQ remains subject to the risk that the parties may be unable to finance, both directly and through government or third party sources, the costs of building additional facilities or operating existing facilities. A delay in EverQ’s ability to expand its manufacturing capacity would negatively affect our ability to significantly grow revenues and achieve profitability. In addition, EverQ subjects us to the risks inherent in 16 Table of Contents complex strategic partnership transactions with third parties located in international markets, including the following: • government grants that have been approved may be subject to forfeiture or repayment in whole or in part if EverQ fails to continue to meet the conditions for such grants or if such grants for any reason become unavailable from German or European Union sources; • the establishment of the facility may result in cost overruns, delays, equipment problems and construction, start-up and other operating difficulties, any of which could adversely affect the ability of EverQ to achieve or grow revenue on the timeframe we expect; • as we only own one-third of EverQ, Q-Cells and REC will have the ability to influence the strategic direction of EverQ and other material decisions of EverQ; as a result, we may be unable to take certain actions that we believe would be in our best interests, which, given the expected materiality of EverQ to our combined operations, could significantly harm our business; further, we may be liable to third parties for the material decisions and actions of Q-Cells and REC in EverQ, which actions may harm EverQ and our business; • EverQ may subject us to multiple, conflicting and changing laws, regulations and tax schemes; • EverQ may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce adequate intellectual property rights and protection due to limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection and may be subject to claims or suits alleging infringement of third party intellectual property rights; • under certain circumstances, if we exit EverQ, EverQ will continue to have certain rights to our proprietary technologies that we are licensing to it and thereby compete with us; • limitations on dividends or restrictions against repatriation of earnings may limit our ability to capitalize on earnings from EverQ; • the operation of the manufacturing facility may experience seasonal reductions in productivity common in certain foreign countries, such as the summer months in Europe; • EverQ may be subject to increases in tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers imposed by foreign countries; • EverQ may be unable to successfully hire and retain the additional personnel necessary to operate the facility, or future facilities; • we will be exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • we may experience difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including the difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs. As a result, there can be no assurance that EverQ will be successful in establishing additional facilities or, once established, that EverQ will attain the manufacturing capacity or the financial results that we currently expect. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to significantly increase our manufacturing capacity through the development of additional manufacturing facilities. We may be unable to achieve our capacity expansion goals, which would limit our growth potential, impair our operating results and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. Our future success depends on our ability to increase our manufacturing capacity through the development of additional manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to achieve the production volumes and per unit costs that will allow us to meet customer demand, maintain our competitive position and 17 Table of Contents achieve profitability. Our ability to develop additional manufacturing facilities is subject to significant risk and uncertainty, including: • we may need to continue to raise significant additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible or debt securities in order to finance the costs of development of any additional facility, which we may be unable to do so on reasonable terms or at all, and which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders; • the build-out of any additional facility will be subject to the risks inherent in the development of a new manufacturing facility, including risks of delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be out of our control, such as delays in government approvals or problems with supplier relationships; • we may be required to depend on third parties or strategic partnerships that we establish in the development and operation of a facility, which may subject us to risks that such third parties do not fulfill their obligations to us under our arrangements with them; and • if a new facility is established internationally, we may encounter legal restrictions and liability, encounter commercial restrictions and incur taxes and other expenses to do so and otherwise be subject to the risks inherent in conducting business in a foreign jurisdiction as described elsewhere in this section. If we are unable to develop and successfully operate additional manufacturing facilities, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to scale our business to the extent necessary to achieve profitability, which would cause our stock price to decline. Moreover, there can be no assurance that if we do expand our manufacturing capacity that we will be able to generate customer demand for our solar power products at these production levels or that we will increase our revenues or achieve profitability. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for a number of specialized materials, including silicon and string, necessary to manufacture our solar power products, we are susceptible to supplier and industry-wide supply shortages and price volatility, which could adversely affect our ability to meet existing and future customer demand for our products and cause us to make fewer shipments, generate lower than anticipated revenues and manufacture our products at higher than expected costs. We have a limited number of suppliers for a number of specialized materials, including silicon and string, necessary to manufacture our solar power products, which makes us susceptible to quality issues, shortages and price changes for these materials. Demand for and pricing of silicon has increased significantly over the past few years. Further increases in the demand for silicon may cause us to encounter shortages or delays in obtaining silicon to be used in the manufacture of our solar power products, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and decreased revenues (and inhibit our ability to commit to expand our manufacturing capabilities). Additionally, further increases in the price of available silicon could negatively impact our results of operations in any given period. Our dependence on a limited number of third party suppliers for raw materials, key components for our solar power products and custom-built equipment for our operations could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes, which could result in order cancellations and loss of market share. We manufacture all of our solar power products using materials and components procured from a limited number of third-party suppliers. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products or our products may be available only at a higher cost or after a long delay, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes and we may experience order cancellation and loss of market share. To the extent the processes that our suppliers use to manufacture materials and components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable materials and components from alternative suppliers. The failure of a supplier to supply materials and components in a timely manner, or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, 18 Table of Contents quantity and cost requirements could impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase their costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain substitute sources of these materials and components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us. Certain of the capital equipment used in the manufacture of our solar power products has been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. Consequently, any damage to or break down of our manufacturing equipment at a time we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products may have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, a supplier’s failure to supply this equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay our capacity expansion of our manufacturing facility and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. We may fail to successfully bring to market our new solar power products under development, which may prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Although we have been selling our solar power products since 1997, we expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of our new solar power products that are under development and not yet commercially available. If we fail to successfully develop our new solar power products or technologies, we will likely be unable to recover the losses we have incurred to develop these products and technologies and may be unable to increase our sales and market share and to become profitable. Many of our new product and manufacturing technologies are novel and represent a departure from conventional solar power technologies, and it is difficult to predict whether we will be successful in completing their development. Our new manufacturing technologies have been tested only in our pilot manufacturing facility and, in most cases, only limited pre-production prototypes of our new products have been field-tested. Our solar power products may not gain market acceptance, which would prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. The development of a successful market for our solar power products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against other solar power products on the basis of cost, quality and performance; • our failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against conventional energy sources and alternative distributed generation technologies, such as wind and biomass, on the basis of cost, quality and performance; • whether or not customers will accept our new module designs under development and the techniques we are developing to mount them; and • our failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with distributors, systems integrators and other resellers, as well as strategic partners. If our solar power products fail to gain market acceptance, we would be unable to increase our sales and market share and to achieve and sustain profitability. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our solar power products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. The solar power industry is rapidly evolving and competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. We believe that a variety of competing solar power technologies are under development by other companies that could result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected for our solar power products. Our development efforts may 19 Table of Contents be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others and other technologies may prove more advantageous for the commercialization of solar power products. Our ability to increase market share and sales depends on our ability to successfully maintain our existing distribution relationships and expand our distribution channels. We currently sell our solar power products primarily to distributors, system integrators and other value-added resellers within and outside of North America, which typically resell our products to end users on a global basis. During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we sold our solar power products to approximately 25 distributors, system integrators and other value-added resellers. If we are unable to successfully refine our existing distribution relationships and expand our distribution channels, our revenues and future prospects will be materially harmed. As we seek to grow our sales by entering new markets in which we have little experience selling our solar power products, our ability to increase market share and sales will depend substantially on our ability to expand our distribution channels by identifying, developing and maintaining relationships with resellers both within and outside of North America. We may be unable to enter into relationships with resellers in the markets we target or on terms and conditions favorable to us, which could prevent us from entering these markets or entering these markets in accordance with our plans. Our ability to enter into and maintain relationships with resellers will be influenced by the relationships between these resellers and our competitors, market acceptance of our solar power products and our low brand recognition as a new entrant. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, it could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. From our inception through December 31, 2006, approximately 67% of our product sales have been made to distributors outside of the United States. Sales outside of the United States constituted approximately 63% of our total product sales for the period ended December 31, 2006. We expect that our sales both to resellers and distributors outside of North America and through our resellers and distributors to end users outside of North America, will continue to be significant. It will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop our international sales channels. In addition, the marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products internationally expose us to a number of markets with which we have limited experience. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, it could impair our ability to grow our business abroad. These risks include: • difficult and expensive compliance with the commercial and legal requirements of international markets, with which we have only limited experience; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; • encountering trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could affect the competitive pricing of our solar power products and reduce our market share in some countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar; • difficulty in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international business operations; • increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; • difficulty of enforcing revenue collection internationally; and • inability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and services in German and other international markets due to, for example, third-party intellectual property rights. Our strategy includes establishing local manufacturing facilities in international markets. As we implement our strategy, we may encounter legal restrictions and liability, encounter commercial restrictions and incur taxes and other expenses to establish our manufacturing facilities in certain countries. In addition, we 20 Table of Contents may potentially forfeit, voluntarily or involuntarily, foreign assets due to economic or political instability in the countries where our local manufacturing facilities are located. Our dependence on a small number of resellers may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our product revenues. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 33%, 15%, 14% and 11% of our total accounts receivable were outstanding from NVT, LLC, PowerLight, Donauer Solartechnick and AEE Solar, respectively. We anticipate that sales of our solar power products to a limited number of key resellers will continue to account for a significant portion of our total product revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our product revenues and negatively impact our operating results: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant resellers; • selection by one or more of our significant resellers of products competitive with ours; • loss of one or more of our significant resellers and our failure to recruit additional or replacement resellers; and • failure of any of our significant resellers to make timely payment of our invoices. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. As is consistent with standard practice in our industry, the duration of our product warranties is lengthy relative to expected product life and has recently been increasing. Our current standard product warranty includes a two-year warranty period for defects in material and workmanship and a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with industry practice. Due to the long warranty period, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped product and recognized revenues. Although we have sold solar modules since 1997, none of these modules has been operating more than ten years, and a majority of them have been operating less than two years. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline. Our success in the future may depend on our ability to establish and maintain strategic alliances, and any failure on our part to establish and maintain such relationships could adversely affect our market penetration and revenue growth. We intend to continue to establish strategic relationships with third parties in the solar power industry, particularly in international markets. Our ability to establish strategic relationships will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as the competitive position of our technology and our products relative to our competitors. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to establish other strategic relationships in the future. In addition, other strategic alliances that we establish, will subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, loss of control of operations that are material to our business and profit-sharing arrangements. Moreover, strategic alliances may be expensive to implement and subject us to the risk that the third party will not perform its obligations under the relationship, which may subject us to losses over which we have no control or expensive termination arrangements. As a result, even if our strategic alliances with third parties are successful, our business may be adversely affected by a number of factors that are outside of our control, which would in turn cause our stock price to decline. 21 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on the continuing contributions of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain new qualified employees in a competitive labor market. We have attracted a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce, including scientists, engineers, researchers and manufacturing and marketing professionals. If we were to lose the services of Richard M. Feldt, our Chief Executive Officer, President and a Director, or any of our other executive officers and key employees, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our senior management or other key personnel. We had approximately 330 employees as of December 31, 2006, and we anticipate that we will need to hire a significant number of new highly-skilled technical, manufacturing, sales and marketing and administrative personnel if we are to successfully develop and market our products, develop our distribution network and operate our manufacturing facilities. Competition for personnel is intense, and qualified technical personnel are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Locating candidates with the appropriate qualifications, particularly in the desired geographic location, can be costly and difficult. We may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategy, or we may need to provide higher compensation or more training to our personnel than we currently anticipate. Moreover, any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. We may be affected by skilled labor shortages and labor disputes. We require experienced engineers, technicians and machinists to conduct our business. No assurance can be given that the supply of these skilled persons will always be adequate to meet our requirements or that we will be able to attract an adequate number of skilled persons. Labor disputes could also occur at our manufacturing facilities, which may affect our business. While our employees are not currently represented by labor unions or organized under collective bargaining agreements, labor disputes could occur at any of our facilities, which could adversely impact our revenues and operations. Extended business interruption at our manufacturing facilities could result in reduced sales. We utilize highly flammable materials such as silane and methane in our manufacturing processes. By utilizing these materials, we are subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires. Our inability to fill customer orders during an extended business interruption could negatively impact existing customer relationships resulting in market share decreases. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid applications could cause our revenues to decline. We believe that the growth of the majority of our target markets, particularly the market for on-grid applications, depends on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Today, the cost of solar power substantially exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably the United States, Japan and Germany, have provided subsidies in the form of cost reductions, tax write-offs and other incentives to end users, distributors, systems integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. Accordingly, the reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives would likely reduce the size of these markets and/or result in increased price competition, which could cause our revenues to decline. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales would not significantly increase and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. The market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenues to achieve and 22 Table of Contents sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: • cost-effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; • performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; • success of alternative distributed generation technologies such as fuel cells, wind power and micro turbines; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease when the United States or global economy slows; • continued deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry; and • availability of government subsidies and incentives. We face intense competition from other companies producing solar power and other energy generation products. If we fail to compete effectively, we may be unable to increase our market share and sales. The solar power market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. Many of our competitors have established a market position more prominent than ours, and if we fail to attract and retain customers and establish a successful distribution network for our solar power products, we may be unable to increase our sales and market share. There are a large number of companies in the world that produce solar power products, including BP Solar, Kyocera Corporation, Sharp Corporation, Mitsubishi, SunPower Corporation, SunTech, First Solar, Solar World AG and Sanyo Corporation. We also expect that future competition will include new entrants to the solar power market offering new technological solutions. Further, many of our competitors are developing and are currently producing products based on new solar power technologies, including other crystalline silicon ribbon and sheet technologies, that they believe will ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. Most of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, have longer operating histories and have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs due to their ability to allocate fixed costs across a greater volume of production and purchase raw materials at lower prices. Many also have greater name recognition, a more established distribution network and a larger installed base of customers. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential resellers and their customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements than we can. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we could lose our competitive advantage in the solar power market. Our ability to compete effectively against competing solar power technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technology, product designs and manufacturing processes through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and may need to defend our products and services against infringement claims, either of which could result in the loss of our competitive advantage in the solar power market and materially harm our business and profitability. We face the following risks in protecting our intellectual property and in developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and services: • we cannot be certain that our pending United States and foreign patent applications will result in issued patents or that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes; 23 Table of Contents • given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important; • third parties may design around our patented technologies or seek to challenge or invalidate our intellectual property rights and there is no assurance that our intellectual property rights will deter infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; • we may incur significant costs and diversion of management resources in prosecuting or defending intellectual property infringement suits; • we may not be successful in prosecuting or defending intellectual property infringement suits and, as a result, may need to seek to obtain a license of the third party’s intellectual property rights, which may not be available to us, whether on reasonable terms or at all; • the contractual provisions we rely on to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, such as our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties, may be breached and our trade secrets and proprietary information may be disclosed to competitors, strategic partners and the public; and If we are subject to litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries. There may be patents or patent applications in the United States or other countries that are pertinent to our business of which we are not aware. The technology that we incorporate into and use to develop and manufacture our current and future solar power products may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. The success of our technology efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may receive notices from third parties alleging patent, trademark or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or contract claims. Receipt of these notices could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management from our technology efforts. If a successful claim were brought against us, we would have to attempt to license the intellectual property right from the claimant or to spend time and money to design around or avoid the intellectual property. Any such license may not be available at reasonable terms, or at all. We may be involved in future lawsuits, arbitrations or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations. In addition, litigation, arbitration or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: • assert claims of infringement or misappropriation of or otherwise enforce our intellectual property rights; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our intellectual property rights or those of others. We may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management’s efforts. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses to other parties’ intellectual property rights. We may also be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing, marketing or selling a solar power product or service that we develop. Further, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may have to participate in proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark office, or before foreign patent and trademark offices, with respect to our patents, patent applications, trademarks or trademark applications or those of others. These actions may result in substantial costs to us as well as a diversion of management attention. Furthermore, these actions could place our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights at risk and could result in the loss of patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection for the products and services on which our business strategy depends. 24 Table of Contents We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use or reduced sales or otherwise reduce our ability to compete. Our business and competitive position depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any solar power products that we develop. Despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any patents issued in connection with our efforts to develop new technology for solar power products may not be broad enough to protect all of the potential uses of the technology. In addition, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a technology in-licensed to us, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. If the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the related solar power products. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: • independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; • otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or • design around our patents or other intellectual property. We pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. Existing regulations and changes to such regulations may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as internal policies and regulations promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electric grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electric grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. There is also a burden in having to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us and our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws or regulations we may be required to pay substantial fines, incur significant capital expenditures, suspend production or cease operations. We use, 25 Table of Contents generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of or generation of, or to restrict adequately the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances or wastes could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs or other costs, or suspensions in our business operations. In addition, under some foreign, federal and state statutes and regulations, a governmental agency may seek recovery and response costs from generators of the hazardous substances or operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if such party was not responsible for the release or otherwise at fault. While we are not aware of any outstanding, material environmental claims or obligations, future developments such as the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, more aggressive enforcement policies, or the discovery of unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. Like other retailers, distributors and manufacturers of products that are used by consumers, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the solar power products we sell results in injury. Since our products are electricity producing devices, it is possible that consumers could be injured or killed by our products, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. In addition, since sales of our existing products have been modest and the products we are developing incorporate new technologies and use new installation methods, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. We rely on our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims and have not obtained separate product liability insurance. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and if our insurance protection is inadequate to cover these claims, they could require us to make significant payments. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows. In connection with our sale of the convertible subordinated notes in June 2005, we incurred new indebtedness of $90 million. As a result of this indebtedness, our principal and interest payment obligations increased substantially. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on the notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all, including financing to fund the development or expansion of EverQ’s manufacturing operations; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock has been volatile. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The closing sale prices of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Market, have ranged from $7.16 to $17.24 for the 52-week period ended February 15, 2007. Our operating performance will significantly affect the market price of our common stock. To the extent we are unable to compete effectively and gain market share or the other factors described in this section affect us, our stock price will likely decline. The market price of our common stock also may be adversely impacted by broad market and industry fluctuations regardless of our operating performance, including general economic and technology trends. The Nasdaq Global Market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and 26 Table of Contents trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies such as ours have been extremely volatile. In addition, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We may be involved in securities class action litigation in the future. This litigation often results in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, including: • the size and timing of customer orders for or shipments of our products; • the rate and cost at which we are able to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, including the rate and cost at which we are able to implement advances in our String-Ribbon technology; • our ability to establish and expand key customer and distributor relationships; • our ability and the terms upon which we are able to raise capital sufficient to finance the expansion of our manufacturing capacity and our sales and marketing efforts; • our ability to expand EverQ within budget and within the time frame that we expect; • our ability to establish strategic relationships with third parties to accelerate our growth plans; • the amount and timing of expenses associated with our research and development programs and our ability to develop enhancements to our manufacturing processes and our products; • delays associated with the supply of specialized materials necessary for the manufacture of our solar power products; • our ability to execute our cost reduction programs; • one time charges resulting from replacing existing equipment or technology with new or improved equipment or technology as part of our strategy to expand our manufacturing capacity and to decrease our per unit manufacturing cost; • developments in the competitive environment, including the introduction of new products or technological advancements by our competitors; and • the timing of adding the personnel necessary to execute our growth plan. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly, particularly as we develop our internal infrastructure to support our anticipated growth. If our product revenues in any quarter do not increase correspondingly, our net losses for that period will increase. Moreover, given that a significant portion of our operating expenses is largely fixed in nature and cannot be quickly reduced, if our product revenues are delayed or below expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. For these reasons, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on results of operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts in any quarter, the market value of our common stock would likely decrease, and it could decrease rapidly and substantially. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings to support operations and to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware law, could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control transaction or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. We also have a staggered board of Directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. If a tender offer, change in control transaction, takeover attempt or change in our board of directors is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 27,227,668 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have in the past and we may in the future issue additional shares of authorized preferred stock at any time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 