ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. For more information regarding the forward-looking statements contained in this report, see “Concerns Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Other factors may also exist that we cannot anticipate or that we currently do not consider to be significant based on currently available information. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future results. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY, PRODUCTS, FINANCIAL RESULTS AND OPERATIONS Evaluating our business and future prospects may be difficult due to the rapidly changing market landscape. There is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. Although we were formed in 1994 to research and develop crystalline silicon technology for use in manufacturing solar power products and began shipping product in 1997, we first shipped commercial products in September 2001. Relative to the entire solar industry, we have shipped only a limited number of solar power panels and have recognized limited revenues generated by products we have manufactured. 13 Table of Contents The solar power market is rapidly evolving and is experiencing technological advances and new market entrants. Our future success will require us to scale our manufacturing capacity significantly beyond the capacity of our Devens facility or find third parties to manufacture our products or license our proprietary technologies, and our business model, technologies and processes are unproven at significant scale. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a growing and rapidly evolving market. We have a history of losses, expect to incur substantial further losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which in turn could materially decrease the value of our common stock. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses, including a net loss of $84.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Principally as a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $221.2 million as of December 31, 2008. We expect to incur additional losses until the first phase of Devens reaches full capacity, and if we do not achieve our expected production targets and cost reductions we may not become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future, which in turn could materially decrease the market value of our common stock. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase as we seek to: • expand our manufacturing operations, whether domestically or internationally; • develop our distribution network; • continue to research and develop our products and manufacturing technologies; • implement internal systems and infrastructure to support our growth; and • hire additional personnel. We do not know whether our revenues will grow at all or grow rapidly enough to absorb these costs, and our limited operating history makes it difficult to assess the extent of these expenses or their impact on our operating results. We may need to raise significant additional capital in order to continue to grow our business and fund our operations, as planned, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We will need to generate cash internally or raise significant additional capital to fund our planned expansion of manufacturing facilities beyond the Devens facility, to acquire complementary businesses, to secure silicon beyond our existing contracts and obtain other raw materials and/or necessary technologies. Furthermore, we, along with REC and Q-Cells, have certain obligations to fund Sovello if past government grants for Sovello are reclaimed or additional expected grants for Sovello are not obtained, if the current Sovello expansion, Sovello 3, exceeds budget, or if Sovello violates a financial covenant in its loan agreement with its lenders, under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2008, Sovello is in violation of one of its bank loan financial covenants. Based on current negotiations with the bank, we anticipate providing additional funds to Sovello in the form of a loan or additional equity investment. If we, Sovello, and Sovello's other shareholders cannot obtain an amendment to Sovello's loan agreement, this could require us to make an additional investment in Sovello. These and other obligations could impact the availability of our existing funds. If adequate capital does not become available when needed on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, further develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. In such a case, the stock price of our common stock would likely be materially and adversely impacted. Our ability to raise capital will be severely hampered by adverse changes in general economic market conditions. The U.S. economy is currently undergoing unprecedented turmoil amid stock market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, tightening of the credit markets, softness in the housing markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, reduced consumer spending, and continuing economic uncertainties. This turmoil and the uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our ability to obtain debt or equity financing of our operations. The cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected as concerns about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease, to provide funding to borrowers. If these market and economic conditions continue, they may limit our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this severe global economic downturn. 14 Table of Contents Our future success depends on our ability to increase our manufacturing capacity through the development of manufacturing facilities in addition to the completion of our Devens facility, to establish contract manufacturers, license our technologies or otherwise outsource the manufacturing of our products. Our inability to increase our production capacity directly or successfully outsource the manufacturing of our products will limit our growth potential and impair our operating results and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to increase our manufacturing capacity with manufacturing facilities beyond the completion of our Devens facility, contract manufacturers and licensing of our technologies. Our ability to complete our Devens facility is contingent on successfully managing the remaining stages of equipping and commencing the operation of the facility. Our failure to successfully and cost-effectively manage this process could delay completion of Devens. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in establishing additional facilities or, once established, that we will attain the expected manufacturing capacity or financial results. Our ability to complete our Devens and Midland facilities and the planning, construction and equipping additional manufacturing facilities as needed is subject to significant risk and uncertainty, including: • the completion of any facilities will be subject to the risks inherent in the establishment of a new manufacturing facility, including risks of delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be out of our control, such as delays in government approvals, burdensome permit conditions and delays in the customization, delivery, and installation of manufacturing equipment from numerous suppliers; and • we may be required to depend on third parties or strategic partnerships that we establish in the development and operation of additional production capacity, which may subject us to risks that such third parties do not fulfill their obligations to us under our arrangements with them. If we are unable to develop and successfully operate additional manufacturing facilities, establish contract manufacturing relationships or license our technologies, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to scale our business to the extent necessary to improve results of operations and achieve profitability. Moreover, there can be no assurance that if we do expand our manufacturing capacity, establish contract manufacturing relationships or license our technologies, that we will be able to generate customer demand for our solar power products at these production levels or that we will increase our revenues or achieve profitability. We may be unable to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, and our Sovello joint venture agreement that governs our relationship with the other Sovello joint venture participants may limit our ability to expand our manufacturing outside of the United States. We expect to expand our business significantly in order to satisfy demand for our solar power products and increase our market share. To manage the expansion of our operations, we will be required to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Our management will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with distribution partners, suppliers and other third parties and attract new distribution partners and suppliers. In addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, systems and internal procedures and controls might be inadequate to support our future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. Furthermore, under the master joint venture agreement that governs the joint venture parties’ relationship with respect to Sovello, we have agreed to give to each of Q-Cells and REC, respectively, a right of first refusal to participate in specified future joint ventures that we may decide to undertake for development of manufacturing facilities outside the United States. This limitation could have the effect of complicating attempts we may make to expand our manufacturing outside of the United States. 15 Table of Contents If our suppliers fail to deliver polysilicon sufficient to meet our needs or we are unable to otherwise obtain the polysilicon we need to meet our production targets, our revenue growth, gross margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Recent announcements by major silicon suppliers regarding delays in the start-up of their new polysilicon production facilities and delays in deliveries from our suppliers are indicative of the complexities involved in polysilicon manufacturing and highlight the possibility that our suppliers may not provide polysilicon sufficient to meet our manufacturing requirements for our expected panel production levels. Polysilicon is an essential raw material in our production of photovoltaic wafers and cells which we use to make our solar panels. In recent years there has been an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon and a limited number of polysilicon suppliers, which has resulted in significant price increases and pre-payment requirements under polysilicon agreements. Although we have contracted with vendors for polysilicon supply sufficient for our stated expansion plans, our estimates regarding our supply needs may not be correct and our suppliers may need to delay shipments currently expected under these contracts. A number of our suppliers, including DC Chemical, Nitol and Silpro, are constructing new facilities to manufacture the polysilicon to be delivered to us. The construction of these facilities is a substantial undertaking, requiring several years to complete and subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to new construction. Each of DC Chemical, Silpro and Nitol has limited experience in developing polysilicon manufacturing facilities. We have also made significant prepayments with our polysilicon suppliers. In many instances these payments are not refundable or will be difficult to recover if a supplier defaults on its obligations. Although we have long-term polysilicon supply agreements with five different suppliers, only DC Chemical, REC and Nitol are contracted to provide us with polysilicon during 2009, of which DC Chemical is expected to provide approximately 65% of our 2009 expected requirements. If DC Chemical, Wacker, Nitol, Silpro, REC or any other polysilicon suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply us with polysilicon as previously forecasted under the applicable supply agreements, our ability to meet existing and future customer demand for our products would be impaired. In turn, this could cause us to make fewer shipments, lose distribution partners and market share and generate lower than anticipated revenue, thereby seriously harming our financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials other than polysilicon, key components for our solar power products and capital equipment could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and timely deliver our products, which could result in order cancellations and loss of market share. We manufacture products using materials and components procured from a limited number of suppliers and certain materials and components we use are proprietary or available only from a limited number of sources. Our materials and components supply chain, therefore, makes us more susceptible to quality issues, shortages and price changes. Also, certain of the capital equipment used in the manufacture of our solar power products has been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. If we fail to develop, maintain or expand successful relationships with suppliers, if our suppliers fail to supply good quality materials on time that meet our cost requirements or if we experience damage to or breakdown of our manufacturing equipment, we may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Manufacturing delays and cost overruns could prevent us from delivering our products to our distribution partners within required time frames at competitive prices which could lead to order cancellations and loss of market share and a material adverse impact on our business. 16 Table of Contents If the market price of polysilicon continues to decrease, we could be at a significant competitive disadvantage because we have entered into multi-year polysilicon contracts. The market price for polysilicon has been decreasing steadily since mid-2008. Polysilicon prices are expected to continue to decline and could fall below the price we have contracted for with our long-term silicon suppliers. We may not be able to modify the contracted price charged to us by our suppliers. Other wafer manufacturers may be able to enter into long-term contracts or buy polysilicon on the spot market at lower prices than those we have contracted for with our suppliers. If the price we pay for polysilicon is significantly higher than the price paid by our competitors, our competitive cost advantage of producing wafers could decrease. Our inability to reduce a key manufacturing cost to the same degree as our competitors could adversely affect our ability to price our products competitively and generate favorable profit margins. In light of current market conditions, we may be unable to complete an initial public offering of shares of our Sovello joint venture as was previously contemplated or otherwise realize a return on our investment in Sovello in the near term. Although we previously announced our desire to complete an initial public offering of Sovello shares by the end of 2009, we no longer expect that such an offering for Sovello’s shares can be successfully completed in that timeframe. Even if Sovello can complete an initial public offering at a later time, we can give no assurance regarding the level of the initial offering price or the market performance of Sovello shares after the initial public offering. Without an initial public offering of Sovello shares, our ability to realize a return from our investment in Sovello may be very limited, which will limit our liquidity and capital resources. We continue to invest significantly in research and development, and these efforts may not result in improved products or manufacturing processes. We have historically invested heavily in research and development related to new product development and improving our manufacturing processes, and expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development in the future. If we fail to develop successfully our new solar power products or technologies, we will likely be unable to recover the costs we have incurred to develop these products and technologies and may be unable to increase our revenues and to become profitable. Some of our new product and manufacturing technologies are unproven at commercial scale and represent a departure from conventional solar power technologies, and it is difficult to predict whether we will be successful in completing their development. In addition, we invest significantly in developing new manufacturing processes designed to reduce our total costs of production. Our new manufacturing technologies, including our quad wafer furnace design, have been in use for a only limited time and our new products have been field-tested and/or sold in limited quantities. We cannot be certain our manufacturing technologies and products will perform as expected. If our development efforts regarding new manufacturing technologies are not successful, and we are unable to increase the efficiency and decrease the costs of our manufacturing process, we may not be able to reduce the price of our products, which might prevent our products from gaining wide acceptance, and our gross margins may be negatively impacted. Our solar power products may not gain market acceptance, which would prevent us from achieving increased revenues and market share. The development of a successful market for our solar power products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against other solar power products on the basis of cost, quality and performance; • our failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against conventional energy sources and alternative distributed generation technologies, such as wind and biomass, on the basis of cost, quality and performance; • whether or not customers will accept our new panel designs under development; and • our failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with distributors, systems integrators, project developers and other resellers, as well as strategic partners. If our solar power products fail to gain market acceptance, we would be unable to increase our revenues and market share and to achieve and sustain profitability. 17 Table of Contents Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our solar power products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. The solar power market is characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as increased efficiency, higher power output and lower price. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. The solar power industry is rapidly evolving and competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. A variety of competing solar power technologies are under development by other companies that could result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected for our solar power products. Our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others, and other technologies may prove more advantageous for the commercialization of solar power products. Our ability to increase market share and revenues depends on our ability to successfully maintain our existing distribution relationships and expand our distribution channels. We currently sell our solar power products primarily to domestic and international distributors, system integrators, project developers and other resellers, which typically resell our products to end users on a global basis. During our year ended December 31, 2008, we sold our solar power products to approximately 37 distributors, system integrators, project developers and other resellers. Substantially all of our products were sold to just 12 of these distribution partners. If we are unable to maintain successfully our existing distribution relationships and expand our distribution channels, our revenues and future prospects will be materially harmed. As we seek to grow our revenues by entering new markets in which we have little experience selling our products, our ability to increase market share and revenues will depend substantially on our ability to expand our distribution channels by identifying, developing and maintaining relationships with resellers. We may be unable to enter into relationships with resellers in the markets we target or on terms and conditions favorable to us, which could prevent us from entering these markets or entering these markets in accordance with our plans. Our ability to enter into and maintain relationships with resellers will be influenced by the relationships between these resellers and our competitors, market acceptance of our products and our lower brand recognition as a newer entrant and smaller volume producer. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, it could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. Our product revenues outside of the United States, which excludes sales by Sovello, constituted approximately 42% and 18% of our total product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect that in the near future, our revenues both from resellers and distributors outside of the United States and through our resellers and distributors to end users outside of the United States will represent a majority of our total product revenues, particularly as we increase our production capacity. Significant management attention and financial resources will be required to develop successfully our international sales channels. In addition, the marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products outside the United States expose us to a number of markets in which we have limited experience. If we are unable to manage effectively these risks, it could impair our ability to grow our business abroad. These risks include: • difficult and expensive compliance with the commercial and legal requirements of international markets, with which we have only limited experience; • difficulty in interpreting and enforcing contracts governed by foreign law, which may be subject to multiple, conflicting and changing laws, regulations and tax systems; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; • encountering trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could affect the competitive pricing of our solar power products and reduce our market share in some countries; • unavailability of government grants from German or other foreign sources, or for government grants that have been approved, risk of forfeiture or repayment in whole or in part: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar; • limitations on dividends or restrictions against repatriation of earnings; • difficulty in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international business operations; • increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; and • inability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and services in Germany and other international markets due to, for example, third-party intellectual property rights. 18 Table of Contents Our strategy may include establishing local manufacturing facilities or engaging contract manufacturers in international markets or licensing our technology. As we implement our strategy, we may encounter legal restrictions and liability, encounter commercial restrictions and incur taxes and other expenses to establish our manufacturing facilities in certain countries. In addition, we may potentially forfeit, voluntarily or involuntarily, foreign assets due to economic or political instability in the countries in which we choose to locate our manufacturing facilities. Furthermore, under the master joint venture agreement that governs the joint venture parties’ relationship with respect to Sovello, we have agreed to give to each of Q-Cells and REC, respectively, a right of first refusal to participate in specified future joint ventures that we may decide to undertake for development of manufacturing facilities outside the United States. This limitation could have the effect of complicating attempts we may make to expand our manufacturing outside of the United States. Our dependence on a small number of distribution partners may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our product revenues. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 31%, 15% and 9% of our product revenues were generated from sales to SunPower Corporation, Ralos Vetriebs and Solar City. These companies are in various stages of development and the loss of sales to any of them or the decline of any of their businesses could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We anticipate that sales of our solar power products to a limited number of distribution partners will continue to account for a significant portion of our total product revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our product revenues and negatively impact our operating results: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant distribution partners; • selection by one or more of our significant distribution partners of products competitive with ours; • loss of one or more of our significant distribution partners and our failure to recruit additional or replacement distribution partners; and • failure of any of our significant distribution partners to make timely payment of our invoices. Our recent long-term customer contracts for our products will result in a significant portion of our sales of Evergreen Solar manufactured products being concentrated among a limited number of customers in 2009 and 2010. The failure of one or more customers to purchase our products in accordance with their contractual commitments could significantly decrease our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2008, we entered into long-term sales agreement commitments with seven customers that extend until the end of 2013. These seven customers have agreed to purchase, in the aggregate, a majority of our estimated total manufacturing output for 2009, with two of the seven each purchasing more than 10% of our estimated 125 MW to 130 MW of total manufacturing output in that period. The failure of these customers to purchase product as agreed in our contracts could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Given the nature of the market for our products and the terms of our customer contracts, we have been required to reduce our prices or modify other payment terms on occasion during the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009. Any price reductions will result in lower revenues and decreased margins. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Consistent with standard practice in the solar industry, the duration of our product warranties is lengthy. Our current standard product warranty includes a five-year warranty period for defects in material and workmanship and a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance beyond specified levels. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with industry practice. Due to the long warranty period, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped product and recognized revenues. Although we have sold solar panels since 1997, the substantial majority of them have been operating for less than three years. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expenses to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline. 19 Table of Contents Our success in the future may depend on our ability to establish and maintain strategic alliances, and any failure on our part to establish and maintain such relationships could adversely affect our market penetration and revenue growth. Our ability to establish strategic relationships will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as the competitive position of our technology and our products relative to our competitors. Furthermore, under the master joint venture agreement that governs the joint venture parties’ relationship with respect to Sovello, we have agreed to give to each of Q-Cells and REC, respectively, a right of first refusal to participate in specified future joint ventures that we may decide to undertake for development of manufacturing facilities outside the United States. This limitation could have the effect of frustrating attempts we make to establish strategic relationships with third parties. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to establish new strategic relationships in the future. In addition, strategic alliances that we may establish, will subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, loss of control of operations that are material to our business and profit-sharing arrangements. Moreover, strategic alliances may be expensive to implement, require us to issue additional shares of our common stock and subject us to the risk that the third party will not perform its obligations under the relationship, which may subject us to losses over which we have no control or expensive termination arrangements. As a result, even if our strategic alliances with third parties are successful, our business may be adversely affected by a number of factors that are outside of our control. The success of our business depends on the continuing contributions of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain new qualified employees. We have attracted a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce, including scientists, engineers, researchers and manufacturing and marketing professionals. If we were to lose the services of any of our executive officers and key employees, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our senior management or other key personnel. We had approximately 801 employees as of December 31, 2008, and we anticipate that we will need to hire approximately 150 employees in connection with the completion of our Devens facility. We have had to increase our workforce rapidly from approximately 330 at December 31, 2006 to an expected 850 in April 2009. Such rapid expansions in force are difficult to manage and often result in increased employee turnover. Finding and retaining good personnel for a rapidly expanding and pre-profitability business is challenging, and highly qualified technical personnel are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future despite current economic conditions and rising unemployment levels. We may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategy given our anticipated hiring needs, or we may need to provide higher compensation or more training to our personnel than we currently anticipate. Moreover, any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. Because we utilize highly flammable materials in our manufacturing processes, we are subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We utilize highly flammable materials such as silane and methane in our manufacturing processes. By utilizing these materials, we are subject to the risk of losses arising from explosions and fires. Our inability to fill customer orders during an extended business interruption could materially adversely impact existing distribution partner relationships resulting in market share decreases and reduced revenues. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar technology could cause our revenues to decline. We believe that the growth of the majority of our target markets, depends on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar technology. Today, the cost of solar power substantially exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably the United States, Japan, Italy, Greece, France, Korea and Germany, have provided subsidies in the form of cost reductions, tax incentives and other incentives to end users, distributors, systems integrators, other resellers and 20 Table of Contents manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. In the future, these government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, German subsidies decline at a rate of 7.0% to 10.0% per year (based on the type and size of the PV system). In addition, the Emerging Renewables Program in California has finite funds that may not last through the current program period. California subsidies have declined in the past and will continue to decline as cumulative installations exceed stated thresholds. Net metering policies in California, which currently only require each investor owned utility to provide net metering up to 2.5% of its aggregate customer peak demand, could also limit the amount of solar power installed within California. Recently the 30% investment tax credit for solar energy has been extended for eight years. The Economic Stimulus Bill just signed by President Obama offers additional benefits however until the details of the implementation of this bill are solidified, it is unknown how rapidly or to what magnitude the solar industry will be effected. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives would likely reduce the size of these markets and/or result in increased price competition, which could cause our revenues to decline. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our revenues would not significantly increase and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. The market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenues to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: • cost-effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; • performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; • success of alternative distributed generation technologies such as fuel cells, wind power and micro turbines; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease when the United States or global economy slows; • continued deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry; and • availability of government subsidies and incentives. We face intense competition from other companies producing solar power and other energy generation products. If we fail to compete effectively, we may be unable to increase our market share and revenues. The solar power market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. According to Solarbuzz, there are over 100 companies that are engaged in manufacturing PV products or have announced an intention to do so. Many of our competitors have established a market position more prominent than ours, and if we fail to attract and retain distribution partners and establish a successful distribution network for our solar power products, we may be unable to increase our sales and market share. There are a large number of companies in the world that produce solar power products, including BP Solar International Inc., First Solar, Inc., Kyocera Corporation, Mitsubishi, Sanyo Corporation, Sharp Corporation, Solar World AG, SunPower Corporation, SunTech Power Holdings Co., Ltd. Trina Solar and Yingli. We also expect that future competition will include new entrants to the solar power market offering new technological solutions. In the future, as Sovello becomes an independent company, it may also compete directly with us. In addition, we may face competition from semiconductor manufacturers, several of which have already announced their intention to start production of solar cells. Further, many of our competitors are developing and are currently producing products based on new solar power technologies, including other crystalline silicon ribbon and sheet technologies, that they believe will ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we currently do. Our competitors’ greater size and, in some cases, longer operating histories provide them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. For example, those of our competitors that also manufacture semiconductors may source both semiconductor grade polysilicon and solar grade polysilicon from the same supplier. As a result, such competitors may have stronger bargaining power with such supplier and have an advantage over us in pricing as well as 21 Table of Contents securing polysilicon at times of shortages. Many also have greater name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger installed bases of customers. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential resellers and their customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements than we can. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we could lose our competitive advantage in the solar power market. Our ability to compete effectively against competing solar power technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technology, product designs and manufacturing processes by obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our intellectual property rights through a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and also through unfair competition laws. We may not be able to obtain, maintain or enforce adequately our intellectual property and may need to defend our products against infringement or misappropriation claims, either of which could result in the loss of our competitive advantage in the solar power market and materially harm our business and profitability. We face the following risks in protecting our intellectual property and in developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling our products: • we cannot be certain that our pending United States and foreign patent applications will result in issued patents or that the claims in our issued patents are or will be sufficiently broad to prevent others from developing or using technology similar to ours or in developing, using, manufacturing, marketing or selling products similar to ours; • given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to file patent applications for or not to maintain issued patents for certain innovations that later turn out to be important, or we may choose not to obtain foreign patent protection at all or to obtain patent protection in only some of the foreign countries, which later turn out to be important markets for us; • although we have a number of foreign patents and applications, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and we may encounter difficulties in protecting and defending our rights in such foreign jurisdictions; • to the extent we license our technology to third parties in foreign countries, we may encounter difficulties in protecting and defending our intellectual property rights against such third parties and others; • third parties may design around our patented technologies, and there is no assurance that our patents and other intellectual property rights will be sufficient to deter infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights by others; • third parties may seek to challenge or invalidate our patents, which can result in a narrowing of or invalidating our patents, or rendering our patents unenforceable; • we may have to participate in proceedings such as interference, cancellation, or opposition, before the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or before foreign patent and trademark offices, with respect to our patents, patent applications, trademarks or trademark applications or those of others, and these actions may result in substantial costs to us as well as a diversion of management attention; • although we are not currently involved in any litigation involving intellectual property rights, we may need to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties for infringement or misappropriation or defend our intellectual property rights through lawsuits, which can result in significant costs and diversion of management resources, and we may not be successful in those lawsuits; • we rely on trade secret protections to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce; however, we may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately; and • the contractual provisions on which we rely to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, such as our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties, may be breached, and our trade secrets and proprietary information may be disclosed to competitors, strategic partners and the public, or others may independently develop technology equivalent to our trade secrets and proprietary information. Our technology and products could infringe intellectual property rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and disrupt our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries. There may be patents or patent applications in the United States or other countries that are pertinent to our products or business of which we are not aware. The technology that we incorporate into and use to develop 22 Table of Contents and manufacture our current and future solar power products may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. The success of our business will also depend on our ability to develop new technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Third parties may allege that we infringe patents, trademarks or copyrights, or that we misappropriated trade secrets. These allegations could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management. If a successful claim were brought against us and we are found to infringe a third party’s intellectual property right, we could be required to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if it is determined that we have willfully infringed such rights, or be enjoined from using the technology deemed to be infringing or using, making or selling products deemed to be infringing. If we have supplied infringing products or technology to third parties, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses they may sustain as a result of the infringement. In addition, we may need to attempt to license the intellectual property right from such third party or spend time and money to design around or avoid the intellectual property. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management’s efforts. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities and/or disrupt our business. We may be unable to protect adequately or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, reduced revenues or otherwise reduce our ability to compete. Our business and competitive position depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any manufacturing processes and solar power products that we develop. Despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any patents issued in connection with our efforts to develop new technology for solar power products may not be broad enough to protect all of the potential uses of the technology. In addition, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a technology in-licensed to us, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. If the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the related solar power products. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: • independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; • otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or • design around our patents or other intellectual property. We pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. Licenses for technologies and intellectual property may not be available to us. We have entered into license agreements for technologies and intellectual property rights, including an agreement relating to the manufacture of high temperature filament we intend to use to produce String Ribbon wafers. Any of our license agreements may be subject to terms and conditions which may limit our ability to use the licensed intellectual property under certain circumstances. For example, our license to manufacture high temperature filament may terminate if we materially breach the license agreement or if we abandon the construction of a manufacturing facility to exploit the licensed technology. We may need to enter into additional license agreements in the future for other technologies or intellectual property rights of third parties. Such licenses, however, may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 23 Table of Contents Existing regulations and changes to such regulations concerning the electrical utility industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as internal policies and regulations promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electric grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electric grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national, state and local laws and ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. There is also a burden in having to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us and our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in potentially significant monetary damages and penalties and adverse publicity. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws or regulations we may be required to pay substantial civil or criminal penalties, incur significant capital expenditures, suspend or limit production or cease operations. We use toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals in our research and development and manufacturing activities, and generate and discharge hazardous emissions, effluents and wastes from these operations. Any failure by us to control the use of or generation of, or to restrict adequately the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances or wastes or to otherwise comply with the complex, technical environmental regulations governing our activities could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, natural resource damage claims, cleanup costs or other costs, or restrictions or suspensions of our business operations. In addition, under some foreign, federal and state statutes and regulations governing liability for releases of hazardous substances or wastes to the environment, a governmental agency or private party may seek recovery of response costs or damages from generators of the hazardous substances or operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if such party was not responsible for the release or otherwise at fault. Also, federal, state or international environmental laws and regulations may ban or restrict the availability and use of certain hazardous or toxic raw materials that are or may be used in producing our products, and substitute materials may be more costly or unsatisfactory in performance. We believe that we either have all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business or have initiated the process to obtain additional or modified environmental permits needed to conduct our business. While we are not aware of any outstanding, material environmental claims, liabilities or obligations, future developments such as the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, more aggressive enforcement policies, or the discovery of unknown environmental conditions associated with our current or past operations or properties may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any noncompliance with or incurrence of liability under environmental laws may subject us to adverse publicity, damage our reputation and competitive position and adversely affect sales of our products. Our Devens, Massachusetts manufacturing facility has been constructed on part of the former Fort Devens Army base, which is associated with contamination caused by prior military activities on and near the site. Fort Devens closed in the early 1990’s and subsequently underwent environmental remediation according to an agreement between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, and the U.S. Army. As a condition to the lease for the property, we must not disturb existing groundwater monitoring wells and must allow the U.S. Army access to the property to conduct testing and remedial activities. If environmental contamination is found on the Devens site it could be incorrectly attributed to our activities or the U.S. Army could be required to take additional remedial actions on the Devens site. Any such activities could disrupt the operation of our manufacturing facility. 24 Table of Contents Compliance with occupational safety and health requirements and best practices can be costly, and noncompliance with such requirements may result in potentially significant monetary penalties and adverse publicity. Our manufacturing operations and research and development activities involve the use of mechanical equipment and hazardous chemicals, which involve a risk of potential injury to our employees. These operations are subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA. If we fail to comply with OSHA requirements, or if an employee injury occurs, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, incur significant capital expenditures, suspend or limit production or cease operations. Also, any such violations, employee injuries or failure to comply with industry best practices may subject us to adverse publicity, damage our reputation and competitive position and adversely affect sales of our products. A significant portion of our revenue has been generated from our relationship with Sovello and Sovello faces many of the same risks and uncertainties we face. Recently, due to the expansion of Sovello’s production, we have realized substantial revenue and income associated with royalties, selling fees and our share of Sovello’s net income. Since Sovello is engaged in the same business and utilizes our proprietary manufacturing technology, Sovello is subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties we face. As such, if any of these risks and uncertainties substantially and adversely impacts Sovello, our future revenue and share of Sovello’s profits could be adversely affected. Litigation against Lehman Brothers and Barclays to recover shares of our common stock loaned to Lehman Brothers could be expensive, time-consuming and ultimately unsuccessful. We filed suit in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District Court of New York against Barclays and Lehman Brothers entities seeking the return of 12.2 million shares of our common stock previously loaned by us to Lehman Brothers in July 2008. In February 2009, Lehman Brothers and Barclays filed motions to dismiss our claims. We will oppose the motions to dismiss but expect Lehman Brothers and Barclays to vigorously support their motions and to continue to defend their position against our claims. We may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to the litigation. Despite our expense and efforts, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to recover any of the shares or be awarded any damages from Lehman Brothers or Barclays. In light of economic uncertainty and extremely difficult credit markets, our expansion plans may be delayed and we may not be able to fulfill customer contracts for shipments in 2011 and beyond. Economic uncertainty, turmoil in the financial markets and disarray in the world credit markets may adversely impact our previously announced long-term expansion plans to reach sales of 300 MW in 2010, 600 MW in 2011 and 850 MW in 2012. While we expect to have enough capacity from our new facility in Devens to meet our long term sales contracts through 2010, we are currently committed to supply aggregate volumes to customers beginning in 2011 that will exceed the expected capacity of our Devens facility. We do not know whether we will be able to raise additional financing or whether we will be able to do so on favorable terms and in the necessary timeframe. If the cost and availability of capital does not improve significantly in the next few quarters, we may need to delay our expansion plans. If we delay our expansion plans and cannot increase the production of our products by engaging contract manufacturers or otherwise outsourcing our manufacturing requirements, as early as the second quarter of 2011 we may not be able to deliver the volumes of solar panels we have agreed to supply pursuant to our long-term customer supply agreements. The significant amount and the structure of our recent offering of senior convertible notes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred a significant amount of debt and substantial debt service requirements as a result of the offering of our senior convertible notes completed in July 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we had $373.8 million of indebtedness outstanding, in addition to $3.0 million of letters of credit issued under our working capital facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient and on terms reasonable to us to support our liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including our senior convertible notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. We may incur additional indebtedness. If we do so, our increased debt service requirements may affect our adversely affect our ability to meet our payment obligations on our currently outstanding senior convertible notes and otherwise successfully grow and operate our business. Unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates could increase the cost to manufacture our products or result in foreign currency exchange losses, which could adversely affect our profits, product orders and market share. As we expand our manufacturing operations, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates are expected to increase. In 2007 and 2008, we entered into multi-year silicon supply agreements with four suppliers. Two of these agreements are denominated in Euros. Additionally, from time to time we purchase equipment and materials internationally with delivery dates as much as six to twelve months or more in the future. There have been significant currency fluctuations in recent periods. To the extent that any purchase obligations are denominated in foreign currency, we are exposed to potential increased costs if the U.S. dollar currency loses value relative to the applicable foreign currency, which will adversely impacting our future financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the expansion of our distribution network internationally has increased our exposure to fluctuation in currency exchange rates. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 38% of our product revenues were denominated in Euros. The portion of our product revenues that are denominated in Euros are expected to increase in future periods based on our seven multi-year solar panel supply agreements, a portion of which are denominated in Euros and other expected customers. The combined estimated current sales value of these agreements is approximately $2.8 billion at December 31, 2008 exchange rates. These panel supply agreements provide the general terms and conditions pursuant to which certain customers will purchase from us specified annual quantities of solar panels beginning primarily in the second half of 2008 and continuing through 2013. As a result, a strengthening of the U.S dollar will decrease our expected U.S. dollar revenue under these agreements and thereby adversely affect our gross and net profit margins. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, imposes an annual limit on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its stock ownership or equity structure. Our ability to use net operating losses may be limited by prior changes in our ownership, by the issuance of shares of common stock under this offering, by the issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the Notes, by the issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of our senior convertible notes, or by the consummation of other transactions. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liabilities for us. Provisions of our senior convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the senior convertible notes we issued could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, or may even prevent a third party from acquiring us. For example, upon the occurrence of certain transactions 26 Table of Contents constituting a fundamental change, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes, or, upon certain change of control transactions, holders of the notes may elect to convert all or a portion of the notes. We may also be required to increase the conversion rate for conversions in connection with certain fundamental changes. By discouraging an acquisition of us by a third party, these provisions could have the effect of depriving the holders of our common stock of an opportunity to sell their common stock, as applicable, at a premium over prevailing market prices. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The issuance or sale of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities in the market, or the perception of such future sales or issuances, could lead to a decline in the price of our common stock. Any issuance of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities, including for the purposes of financing acquisitions and the expansion of our business, may have a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. In addition, the perceived risk associated with the possible issuance of a large number of shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into a large number of shares could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. Subsequent sales of our common stock in the open market or the private placement of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into our common stock could also have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares. If our stock price declines, it may be more difficult for us to or we may be unable to raise additional capital. In addition, future sales of substantial amounts of our currently outstanding common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, will have on the market price of our stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had: • 164,874,850 shares of common stock outstanding; • 3,687,890 shares of common stock underlying options outstanding at a weighted average exercise price of $4.65 per share; • 2,197,996 shares of common stock available and reserved for future issuance or future grant under our Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Option and Incentive Plan; • 277,845 shares of common stock available and reserved for future issuance or future grant under our Amended and Restated 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; • 467,328 shares of common stock underlying warrants outstanding with an exercise price of $3.34 per share; and • 30,856,538 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of our outstanding senior convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of $373.8 million at an initial conversion rate of approximately 82.56 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $12.11 per share). In connection with a multi-year polysilicon supply agreement and pursuant to a stockholders agreement, each of which we entered into with DC Chemical in April 2007, DC Chemical owns 10,750,000 transfer restricted shares of our common stock. The restrictions on the stock will lapse upon the satisfaction of certain conditions related to DC Chemical’s delivery of polysilicon under the supply agreement, at which time we will be obligated to file a registration statement pursuant to which such shares will become freely tradable. We currently expect DC Chemical to satisfy this delivery obligation in early 2010. Three stockholders own, or claim to own, a large portion of our outstanding voting power and may be able to influence significantly the outcome of any stockholder vote. DC Chemical owns 15,698,125 shares of our common stock (which number includes 10,750,000 shares of transfer restricted common stock, which have full voting rights), Barclays PLC beneficially claims to own 12,220,128 shares of our common stock and FMR LLC beneficially owns 18,891,778 shares of our common stock, representing respectively approximately 9.5%, 7.4% and 11.4% of our voting power outstanding as of February 15, 2009. Accordingly, these stockholders can significantly influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. The interests of these investors may differ from yours and 27 Table of Contents they may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. In addition, pursuant to the stockholders agreement we entered into with DC Chemical, DC Chemical has the right to purchase securities in future offerings we may make. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing, or deterring a change of control of our company, and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders and subject us to litigation. Our common stock is quoted on The Nasdaq Global Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The closing sale prices of our common stock, as reported by The Nasdaq Global Market, have ranged from $12.30 to $1.62 for the 52-week period from February 14, 2008 to February 13, 2009. Our operating performance will significantly affect the market price of our common stock. To the extent we are unable to compete effectively and gain market share or the other factors described in this risk factors section affect us, our stock price will likely decline. The market price of our common stock also may be adversely impacted by broad market and industry fluctuations regardless of our operating performance, including general economic and technology trends. The Nasdaq Global Market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies such as ours have been extremely volatile. In addition, some companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We may be involved in securities class action litigation in the future. This litigation often results in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and market price of our common stock have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a variety of factors, including: • the size and timing of orders from distribution partners for or shipments of our products; • the rate and cost at which we are able to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, including the rate and cost at which we are able to implement advances in our manufacturing technology; • our ability to establish and expand key distribution partners and supplier relationships; • our ability and the terms upon which we are able to raise capital sufficient to finance the expansion of our manufacturing capacity and our sales and marketing efforts; • our ability to open complete Devens and other potential capacity expansions within budget and within the time frame that we expect; • Sovello’s ability to expand within budget and within the time frame that they expect; • our ability to establish strategic relationships with third parties to accelerate our growth plans; • the amount and timing of expenses associated with our research and development programs and our ability to develop enhancements to our manufacturing processes and our products; • delays associated with the supply of specialized materials necessary for the manufacture of our solar power products; • our ability to execute our cost reduction programs; • charges resulting from replacing existing equipment or technology with new or improved equipment or technology as part of our strategy to expand our manufacturing capacity and to decrease our per unit manufacturing cost; • developments in the competitive environment, including the introduction of new products or technological advancements by our competitors; • the timing of adding the personnel necessary to execute our growth plan; and • general economic conditions, including a worldwide economic slowdown and the possibility of a prolonged severe recession in the U.S.; recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide; fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of oil and other fossil fuels; and other economic conditions specific to the solar industry • the other risks and uncertainties described in “Risk Factors.” We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly, particularly as we develop our internal infrastructure to support our anticipated growth. If our product revenues in any quarter do not increase correspondingly, our net losses for that period will increase. Moreover, given that a significant portion of our operating expenses is largely fixed in nature and cannot be quickly reduced, if our product revenues are delayed or below expectations, our operating results are 28 Table of Contents likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected. For these reasons, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on results of operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts in any quarter, the market value of our common stock would likely decrease, and it could decrease rapidly and substantially. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain our future earnings, if any, to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in the value of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain its current price. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, each as amended, as well as Delaware law, could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control transaction or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. We also have a staggered board of directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. If a tender offer, change in control transaction, takeover attempt or change in our board of directors is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 27,227,668 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our common stock; • limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have in the past and we may in the future issue additional shares of authorized preferred stock at any time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 29 Table of Contents 