Risk Factors Relating to the Series A Non-Cumulative Preferred Shares General market conditions and unpredictable factors could adversely affect market prices for the series A non-cumulative preferred shares (issued on February 1, 2006). There can be no assurance about the market prices for the series A non-cumulative preferred shares. Several factors, many of which are beyond our control, will influence the market value of the series A non-cumulative preferred shares. Factors that might influence the market value of the series A non-cumulative preferred shares include, but are not limited to: · whether dividends have been declared and are likely to be declared on the series A non-cumulative preferred shares from time to time; · our creditworthiness, financial condition, performance and prospects; · whether the ratings on the series A non-cumulative preferred shares provided by any ratings agency have changed; · the market for similar securities; and · economic, financial, geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events that affect us and/or the insurance or financial markets generally. Dividends on the series A non-cumulative preferred shares (issued on February 1, 2006) are non-cumulative. Dividends on the series A non-cumulative preferred shares are non-cumulative and payable only out of lawfully available funds of ACGL under Bermuda law. Consequently, if ACGL’s board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period, holders of the series A non-cumulative preferred shares would not be entitled to receive any such dividend, and such unpaid dividend will not accrue and will never be payable. ACGL will have no obligation to pay dividends for a dividend period on or after the dividend payment date for such period if its board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) has not declared such dividend before the related dividend payment date; if dividends on the series A non-cumulative preferred shares are authorized and declared with respect to any subsequent dividend period, ACGL will be free to pay dividends on any other series of preferred shares and/or our common shares. The voting rights of holders of the series A non-cumulative preferred shares (issued on February 1, 2006) are limited. Holders of the series A non-cumulative preferred shares have no voting rights with respect to matters that generally require the approval of voting shareholders. The limited voting rights of holders of the series A non-cumulative preferred shares include the right to vote as a class on certain fundamental matters that affect the preference or special rights of the series A non-cumulative preferred shares as set forth in the certificate of designations relating to the series A non-cumulative preferred shares. In addition, if dividends on the series A non-cumulative preferred shares have not been declared or paid for the equivalent of six dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, holders of the outstanding series A non-cumulative preferred shares, together with holders of any other series of our preferred shares ranking equal with the series A non-cumulative preferred shares with similar voting rights, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors to our board of directors subject to the terms and to the limited extent as set forth in the certificate of designations relating to the series A non-cumulative preferred shares. 52 There is no limitation on our issuance of securities that rank equally with or senior to the series A non-cumulative preferred shares (issued on February 1, 2006). We may issue securities that rank equally with or senior to the series A non-cumulative preferred shares without limitation. The issuance of securities ranking equally with or senior to the series A non-cumulative preferred shares may reduce the amount available for dividends and the amount recoverable by holders of the series A non-cumulative preferred shares in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of ACGL. Risks Relating to Taxation We and our non-U.S. subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. federal income taxation. ACGL and its non-U.S. subsidiaries intend to operate their business in a manner that will not cause them to be treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States and, thus, will not be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes (other than U.S. excise taxes on insurance and reinsurance premium and withholding taxes on certain U.S. source investment income) on their income. However, because there is uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, there can be no assurances that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not contend successfully that ACGL or its non-U.S. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If ACGL or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries were subject to U.S. income tax, our shareholders’ equity and earnings could be adversely affected. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries have been personal holding companies, but did not have “undistributed personal holding company income.” Congress has been considering legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of Bermuda insurance companies and U.S. insurance companies having Bermuda affiliates, including perceived tax benefits resulting principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates. In this regard, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Act”) permits the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to re-allocate, re-characterize or adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper source, character and amount for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered source and character). The Jobs Act also eliminated the tax benefits available to a U.S. company that, after March 4, 2003, changed its legal domicile to a non-U.S. jurisdiction, a transaction commonly known as an inversion. We changed our legal domicile from the U.S. to Bermuda, but were not affected by the anti-inversion rule because our change in domicile occurred in November 2000. The Senate version of a tax reconciliation bill would make the Jobs Act anti-inversion rule applicable retroactively to inversions that occurred after March 20, 2002. Although this modification would not affect ACGL, no assurance can be given that the final tax reconciliation bill will not make the Jobs Act anti-inversion rule applicable retroactively to inversions that occurred on an earlier date, in which case ACGL could be adversely affected. Additional legislation, if passed, and other changes in U.S. tax laws, regulations and interpretations thereof to address these issues could adversely affect us. U.S. persons who hold our common shares or series A non-cumulative preferred shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income rates on our undistributed earnings and profits. We believe that we and our non-U.S. subsidiaries currently are controlled foreign corporations (“CFCs”), although our bye-laws are designed to preclude any U.S. person from adverse tax consequences as a result of our CFC status. We do not believe that we are a passive foreign investment company. Since these determinations and beliefs are based upon legal and factual conclusions, no assurances can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or a court would concur with our conclusions. If they were not to so concur, U.S. persons who hold our shares may suffer adverse tax consequences. 53 Reduced tax rate for qualified dividend income received by individuals and other non-corporate holders may not be available in the future. If, as is intended, the series A non-cumulative preferred shares are approved for listing on the NYSE, dividends received by individuals and other non-corporate United States Persons on the series A non-cumulative preferred shares on or before December 31, 2008 should constitute qualified dividend income that is subject to U.S. federal income tax at the rate applicable for long-term capital gains, rather than the higher rates applicable to ordinary income, provided that certain holding period requirements and other conditions are met. There is a risk that dividends, if any, paid prior to the listing of the series A non-cumulative preferred shares on the NYSE may not constitute qualified dividend income. See “Tax Matters—Taxation of Shareholders—United States Taxation—Taxation of Dividends.” After December 31, 2008, qualified dividend income will no longer be taxed at the rate applicable for long-term capital gains unless legislation is enacted providing otherwise. The House of Representatives version of a tax reconciliation bill would extend the preferential treatment of qualified dividend income to dividends paid prior to December 31, 2010, but this proposal has not been included in the Senate version of the tax reconciliation bill, and no assurances can be given that the proposal will be enacted. A legislative proposal introduced in the Senate would increase the holding period requirement for dividends paid on preferred stock. While this proposal has not been included in the Senate version of the tax reconciliation bill, no assurances can be given that this or a similar proposal will not be enacted. Our non-U.S. companies may be subject to U.K. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than Arch-Europe and Arch-U.K., should be resident in the U.K. for tax purposes or have a permanent establishment in the U.K. Accordingly, we expect that none of our companies other than Arch-Europe and Arch-U.K. should be subject to U.K. taxation. However, since applicable law and regulations do not conclusively define the activities that constitute conducting business in the U.K. through a permanent establishment, the U.K. Inland Revenue might contend successfully that one or more of our companies, in addition to Arch-Europe and Arch-U.K., is conducting business in the U.K. through a permanent establishment in the U.K. and, therefore, subject to U.K. tax, which could have a material adverse effect on us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 