ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are risk factors relating to our business. You should also refer to the other information provided in this report, including our "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our accompanying consolidated financial statements, as well as the information under the heading "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Relating to Our Industry We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we may not be able to compete successfully in our industry. The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, many of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do, as well as other potential providers of capital willing to assume insurance and/or reinsurance risk. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In our insurance business, we compete with insurers that provide specialty property and casualty lines of insurance, including ACE Limited, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd., Alterra Capital Holdings Limited, Argo Insurance Group, AXIS Capital Holdings Limited, Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Chartis Inc., Chubb Corporation, Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., Ironshore Inc., Lloyd's, The Travelers Companies, Validus Holdings Ltd, W.R. Berkley Corp., XL Group plc and Zurich Insurance Group. In our reinsurance business, we compete with reinsurers that provide property and casualty lines of reinsurance, including ACE Limited, Alterra Capital Holdings 48 Table of Contents Limited, Argo International Holdings, Ltd., AXIS Capital Holdings Limited, Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Everest Re Group Ltd., Hannover Rückversicherung AG, Lloyd's, Montpelier Re Holdings Ltd., Munich Re Group, PartnerRe Ltd., Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd., Swiss Reinsurance Company, Transatlantic Holdings, Inc., Validus Holdings Ltd and XL Group plc. We do not believe that we have a significant market share in any of our markets. Financial institutions and other capital markets participants also offer alternative products and services similar to our own or alternative products that compete with insurance and reinsurance products. In addition, we may not be aware of other companies that may be planning to enter the segments of the insurance and reinsurance market in which we operate. Our competitive position is based on many factors, including our perceived overall financial strength, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, client and broker relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), appropriate and timely claim payments, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees and local presence. We may not be successful in competing with others on any of these bases, and the intensity of competition in our industry may erode profitability and result in less favorable policy terms and conditions for insurance and reinsurance companies generally, including us. The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly cyclical, and we expect to continue to experience periods characterized by excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates. Historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions, changes in equity, debt and other investment markets, changes in legislation, case law and prevailing concepts of liability and other factors. In particular, demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by the underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic conditions. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices and levels of surplus capacity that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return being realized in the insurance and reinsurance industry on both underwriting and investment sides. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels and changes in terms and conditions. The supply of insurance and reinsurance has increased over the past several years and may increase further, either as a result of capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers. Continued increases in the supply of insurance and reinsurance may have consequences for us, including fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention, and less favorable policy terms and conditions. Claims for catastrophic events could cause large losses and substantial volatility in our results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. As a result, the value of our securities, including our common shares and preferred shares, may fluctuate widely. We have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, tornados, explosions, severe winter weather, fires, droughts and other natural disasters. Catastrophes can also cause losses in non-property business such as workers' compensation or general liability. In addition to the nature of the property business, we believe that economic and geographic trends affecting insured property, including inflation, property value appreciation and geographic concentration tend to generally increase the size of losses from catastrophic events over time. Our actual losses from catastrophic events which may occur may vary materially from our current estimates 49 Table of Contents due to the inherent uncertainties in making such determinations resulting from several factors, including the potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients, brokers and ceding companies, the modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, the contingent nature of business interruption exposures, the effects of any resultant demand surge on claims activity and attendant coverage issues. In addition, over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions, such as global warming, have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. Although the loss experience of catastrophe insurers and reinsurers has historically been characterized as low frequency, there is a growing consensus today that climate change increases the frequency and severity of extreme weather events and, in recent years, the frequency of major catastrophes appears to have increased. Claims for catastrophic events could expose us to large losses and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations, which could cause the value of our securities, including our common shares and preferred shares, to fluctuate widely. We could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism and political instability, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial exposure to unexpected, large losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. These risks are inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. In certain instances, we specifically insure and reinsure risks resulting from acts of terrorism. Even in cases where we attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverages written by us, we may not be successful in doing so. Moreover, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will not limit enforceability of policy language or otherwise issue a ruling adverse to us. Accordingly, while we believe our reinsurance programs, together with the coverage provided under TRIPRA, are sufficient to reasonably limit our net losses relating to potential future terrorist attacks, we can offer no assurance that our available capital will be adequate to cover losses when they materialize. To the extent that an act of terrorism is certified by the Secretary of the Treasury, our U.S. insurance operations may be covered under TRIPRA for up to 85% of its losses for 2011 and future years, in each case subject to a mandatory deductible of 20% of our prior year's direct earned premium for covered property and liability coverages for 2011 through 2014. If an act (or acts) of terrorism result in covered losses exceeding the $100 billion annual limit, insurers with losses exceeding their deductibles will not be responsible for additional losses. It is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to unforecasted or unpredictable events, and to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The insurance and reinsurance industry is subject to regulatory and legislative initiatives or proposals from time to time which could adversely affect our business. From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes have been proposed in the insurance and reinsurance industry. Among the proposals that have in the past been or are at present being considered are the possible introduction of federal regulation in addition to, or in lieu of, the current system of state regulation of insurers. The extreme turmoil in the financial markets has increased the likelihood of changes in the way the financial services industry is regulated. Governmental authorities in the U.S. and worldwide have become increasingly interested in potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, there may be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in 50 Table of Contents the future. For example, the U.S. federal government has increased its scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in recent years, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia and state regulators, regularly reexamines existing laws and regulations. There are also a variety of proposals being considered by various state legislatures. Solvency II, the EU regulatory regime which was enacted in November 2009, imposes new solvency and governance requirements across all EU Member States. Solvency II was originally slated to have become effective by October 31, 2012. A European Commission official has stated publicly that there seems to be an agreement that EU Member States now must implement all the rules to introduce Solvency II by December 31, 2012 and that companies will have until January 1, 2014 to comply with the new regime in full, but companies must demonstrate to the supervisors that they are ready to operate in accordance with Solvency II from January 1, 2014. In addition, a so-called Omnibus II Directive is expected (among other things) to introduce a series of transitional provisions in specific areas that may extend beyond January 1, 2014. The detail of the Solvency II project will be set out in "delegated acts" and binding technical standards which will be issued by the European Commission and will be legally binding. No official drafts for any of these measures have been released. Solvency II imposes significant requirements for our EU-based regulated companies which require substantial documentation and implementation effort. Regulators in Bermuda and other jurisdictions in which we operate are also considering various proposals for financial and regulatory reform. The BMA has implemented and imposed additional requirements on the companies it regulates, such as Arch Re Bermuda, as part of its efforts to achieve equivalence under Solvency II. While the BMA regulates Arch Re Bermuda as a long-term and general business insurer under the Insurance Act in Bermuda, the impact of the Group Rules may have an adverse effect on ACGL and our operations. The future impact of such initiatives, if any, on our results of operations or our financial condition cannot be determined at this time. We are unable to predict whether any of these laws and regulations will be adopted, the form in which any such laws and regulations would be adopted, or the effect, if any, these developments would have on our operations and financial condition, including the capital we are required to hold. It is not expected that the European Commission will take a final decision on whether or not it will recognize the solvency regime in Bermuda to be equivalent to that laid down in Solvency II until 2013. If the European Commission does not recognize the regime in Bermuda to be equivalent, this could have an adverse effect on our operations. Underwriting risks and reserving for losses are based on probabilities and related modeling, which are subject to inherent uncertainties. Our success is dependent upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we insure and reinsure. We establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses which represent estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of losses incurred. We utilize actuarial models as well as available historical insurance industry loss ratio experience and loss development patterns to assist in the establishment of loss reserves. Actual losses and loss adjustment expenses paid will deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency becomes known. It is possible that claims in respect of events that have occurred could exceed our claim reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, in a particular period, or our financial condition in general. As a compounding factor, although most insurance contracts have policy limits, the nature of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance is such that losses can exceed policy limits for a variety of reasons and could significantly exceed the premiums received on the underlying policies, thereby further adversely affecting our financial condition. 51 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, our reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable, were approximately $6.64 billion. Such reserves were established in accordance with applicable insurance laws and GAAP. Loss reserves are inherently subject to uncertainty. In establishing the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, we have made various assumptions relating to the pricing of our reinsurance contracts and insurance policies and have also considered available historical industry experience and current industry conditions. Any estimates and assumptions made as part of the reserving process could prove to be inaccurate due to several factors, including the fact that relatively limited historical information has been reported to us through December 31, 2011. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made catastrophic events. These risks are inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. It is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to unforecasted or unpredictable events and, to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Therefore, claims for natural and man-made catastrophic events could expose us to large losses and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations, which could cause the value of our common shares to fluctuate widely. In certain instances, we specifically insure and reinsure risks resulting from terrorism. Even in cases where we attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverages written by us, we may not be successful in doing so. Moreover, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will limit enforceability of policy language or otherwise issue a ruling adverse to us. We seek to limit our loss exposure by writing a number of our reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client and prudent underwriting of each program written. In the case of proportional treaties, we may seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one or series of events. In our insurance operations, we seek to limit our exposure through the purchase of reinsurance. We cannot be certain that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone's limits. There can be no assurance that various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, will be enforceable in the manner we intend. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders' equity. For our natural catastrophe exposed business, we seek to limit the amount of exposure we will assume from any one insured or reinsured and the amount of the exposure to catastrophe losses from a single event in any geographic zone. We monitor our exposure to catastrophic events, including earthquake and wind, and periodically reevaluate the estimated probable maximum pre-tax loss for such exposures. Our estimated probable maximum pre-tax loss is determined through the use of modeling techniques, but such estimate does not represent our total potential loss for such exposures. Our models employ both proprietary and vendor-based systems and include cross-line correlations for property, marine, offshore energy, aviation, workers compensation and personal accident. We seek to 52 Table of Contents limit the probable maximum pre-tax loss to a specific level for severe catastrophic events. Currently, we seek to limit our 1-in-250 year return period net probable maximum loss from a severe catastrophic event in any geographic zone to approximately 25% of total shareholders' equity. We reserve the right to change this threshold at any time. Net probable maximum loss estimates are net of expected reinsurance recoveries, before income tax and before excess reinsurance reinstatement premiums. Loss estimates are reflective of the zone indicated and not the entire portfolio. Since hurricanes and windstorms can affect more than one zone and make multiple landfalls, our loss estimates include clash estimates from other zones. Our loss estimates do not represent our maximum exposures and it is highly likely that our actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates. There can be no assurances that we will not suffer pre-tax losses greater than 25% of our total shareholders' equity from one or more catastrophic events due to several factors, including the inherent uncertainties in estimating the frequency and severity of such events and the margin of error in making such determinations resulting from potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients and brokers, the modeling techniques and the application of such techniques or as a result of a decision to change the percentage of shareholders' equity exposed to a single catastrophic event. Catastrophe modeling is a relatively new discipline that utilizes a mix of historical data, scientific theory and mathematical methods. We believe that there is considerable uncertainty in the data and parameter inputs for insurance industry catastrophe models. In that regard, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of modeling software. In our view, the accuracy of the models depends heavily on the availability of detailed insured loss data from actual recent large catastrophes. Due to the limited number of events, there is significant potential for substantial differences between the modeled loss estimate and actual company experience for a single large catastrophic event. This potential difference could be even greater for perils with less modeled annual frequency, such as U.S. earthquake, or less modeled annual severity, such as European windstorm. We are also reliant upon third-party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between our loss and that of the industry following a catastrophic event. In addition, actual losses may increase if our reinsurers fail to meet their obligations to us or the reinsurance protections purchased by us are exhausted or are otherwise unavailable. See "Risk Factors—Risk Relating to Our Industry" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Natural and Man-Made Catastrophic Events." Depending on business opportunities and the mix of business that may comprise our insurance and reinsurance portfolio, we may seek to adjust our self-imposed limitations on probable maximum pre-tax loss for catastrophe exposed business. The risk associated with underwriting treaty reinsurance business could adversely affect us. Like other reinsurers, our reinsurance group does not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. Therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. While reinsurance and retrocessional coverage will be used to limit our exposure to risks, the availability of such arrangements may be limited, and counterparty credit and other risks associated with our reinsurance arrangements may result in losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For the purposes of managing risk, we use reinsurance and also may use retrocessional arrangements. In the normal course of business, our insurance subsidiaries cede a portion of their premiums through pro rata, excess of loss and facultative reinsurance agreements. Our reinsurance subsidiaries purchase a limited amount of retrocessional coverage as part of their aggregate risk management program. In addition, our reinsurance subsidiaries participate in "common account" 53 Table of Contents retrocessional arrangements for certain pro rata treaties. Such arrangements reduce the effect of individual or aggregate losses to all companies participating on such treaties, including the reinsurers, such as our reinsurance subsidiaries, and the ceding company. The availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are beyond our control. As a result of such market conditions and other factors, we may not be able to successfully mitigate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Further, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance and retrocessions because the ceding of risk to reinsurers and retrocessionaires does not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure or reinsure. We monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers and attempt to place coverages only with carriers we view as substantial and financially sound. Although we have not experienced any material credit losses to date, an inability of our reinsurers or retrocessionnaires to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our losses for a given event or occurrence may increase if our reinsurers or retrocessionaires dispute or fail to meet their obligations to us or the reinsurance or retrocessional protections purchased by us are exhausted or are otherwise unavailable for any reason. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements or the failure of our existing reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. In some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such payment, we may remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for the deficiency. Likewise, in certain jurisdictions, when the insured or ceding company pays the premiums for these contracts to brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the insured or ceding company will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with our brokers. To date, we have not experienced any losses related to this credit risk. We cannot predict the effect that certain investigations and litigation currently being conducted by state insurance regulatory authorities and others will have on the industry or our business. A number of brokers and insurers entered into settlements with state officials arising out of the investigation by the New York Attorney General and others into contingent commission payments to brokers (and the disclosures relating to such payments), alleged "bid-rigging," alleged "steering," and other practices in the insurance industry. We cannot predict the effect of these settlements, the pending civil litigation that arose out of the investigations or any current or future government investigations or prosecutions and/or resulting changes in insurance practices (including future legislation and/or regulations that may become applicable to our business) will have on the insurance industry, the regulatory framework or our business. The effects of emerging claims and coverage issues and certain proposed legislation are uncertain. The effects of emerging claims and coverage issues are uncertain. The insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and legal developments which have in the past resulted in new or expanded theories of liability. These or other changes could impose new financial obligations on us by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or otherwise require us to make unplanned modifications to the products and services that we provide, or cause the delay or cancellation of products and services that we provide. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for 54 Table of Contents many years after a contract is issued. The effects of unforeseen developments or substantial government intervention could adversely impact our ability to achieve our goals. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. Developments in accounting practices, for example a convergence of U.S. GAAP with IFRS, may require considerable additional expense to comply with, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparable purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted, but may affect the results of our operations, including among other things, the calculation of net income. Risks Relating to Our Company Our success will depend on our ability to maintain and enhance effective operating procedures and internal controls and our ERM program. We continue to enhance our operating procedures and internal controls (including information technology initiatives and controls over financial reporting) to effectively support our business and our regulatory and reporting requirements. Our management does not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. As a result of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more people. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. As a result of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatement due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Accordingly, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the disclosure controls and procedures are met. The NAIC has increased its focus on risks within an insurer's holding company system that may pose enterprise risk to the insurer. The NAIC recently adopted amendments to its Model Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act and Regulation, which include, among other amendments, a requirement for the ultimate controlling person to file an enterprise risk report. The NAIC is also continuing to work towards establishing a legal requirement for insurers to conduct an Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ("ORSA") in accordance with its recently adopted ORSA Guidance Manual. We operate within an ERM framework designed to assess and monitor our risks. However, there can be no assurance that we can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of our employees will operate within the ERM framework. There can be no assurance that our ERM framework will result in us accurately identifying all risks and accurately limiting our exposures based on our assessments. 55 Table of Contents A downgrade in our ratings or our inability to obtain a rating for our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may adversely affect our relationships with clients and brokers and negatively impact sales of our products. Our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are rated by ratings agencies. Brokers negotiate contracts of insurance between insured and insurer on behalf of the insured and intermediaries negotiate contracts of reinsurance between a primary insurer and reinsurer, on behalf of the primary insurer. Third-party rating agencies, such as A.M. Best, assess and rate the financial strength of insurers and reinsurers based upon criteria established by the rating agencies, which criteria are subject to change. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. Insureds, insurers, ceding insurers and intermediaries use these ratings as one measure by which to assess the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are often an important factor in the decision by an insured, ceding insurer, broker or intermediary of whether to place business with a particular insurance or reinsurance provider. Our financial strength ratings are subject to periodic review as rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet their criteria for ratings assigned to us by them. Such ratings may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of such ratings agencies in response to a variety of factors, including a minimum capital adequacy ratio, management, earnings, capitalization and risk profile. We can offer no assurances that our ratings will remain at their current levels. A ratings downgrade or the potential for such a downgrade, or failure to obtain a necessary rating, could adversely affect our relationships with agents, brokers, wholesalers, intermediaries, clients and other distributors of our existing products and services, as well as new sales of our products and services. In addition, under certain of the reinsurance agreements assumed by our reinsurance operations, upon the occurrence of a ratings downgrade or other specified triggering event with respect to our reinsurance operations, such as a reduction in surplus by specified amounts during specified periods, our ceding company clients may be provided with certain rights, including, among other things, the right to terminate the subject reinsurance agreement and/or to require that our reinsurance operations post additional collateral. Any ratings downgrade or failure to obtain a necessary rating could adversely affect our ability to compete in our markets, could cause our premiums and earnings to decrease and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a downgrade in ratings of certain of our operating subsidiaries would in certain cases constitute an event of default under our credit facilities. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments—Letter of Credit and Revolving Credit Facilities" for a discussion of our credit facilities. In light of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny they apply when analyzing companies in our industry, may increase the frequency and scope of their reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate (including additional information regarding the valuation of investment securities held), and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels. The loss of our key employees or our inability to retain them could negatively impact our business. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of our existing key executive officers and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The pool of talent from which we actively recruit is limited. Although, to date, we have not experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our underwriting staff is critical to our success in the production of business. While we do not consider any of our key executive officers or underwriters to be irreplaceable, the loss of the services of our key executive officers or underwriters or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified 56 Table of Contents personnel in the future could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy which could affect our financial performance. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments, which are even more difficult than those made in a mature company since relatively limited historical information has been reported to us through December 31, 2011. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities (including reserves), revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, insurance and other reserves, reinsurance recoverables, investment valuations, intangible assets, bad debts, income taxes, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience, where possible, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and judgments for a relatively new insurance and reinsurance company, like our company, are even more difficult to make than those made in a mature company since relatively limited historical information has been reported to us through December 31, 2011. Instead, our current loss reserves are primarily based on estimates of exposures on reported claims and estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims incurred but not yet reported. We utilize actuarial models as well as historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish our initial loss reserves. Over time, other common reserving methodologies have begun to be employed. Actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. The price of our common shares may be volatile. There has been significant volatility in the market for equity securities. During 2011 and 2010, the price of our common shares fluctuated from a low of $28.54 to a high of $37.99 and from a low of $21.90 to a high of $30.68, respectively. On February 21, 2012, our common shares closed at a price of $37.66. The price of our common shares may not remain at or exceed current levels. The following factors, in addition to those described in other risk factors above, may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock: •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results, including as a result of catastrophes or our investment performance; •our share repurchase program; •changes in market valuation of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry; •changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; •fluctuations in stock market processes and volumes; •issuances or sales of common shares or other securities in the future; •the addition or departure of key personnel; and •announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. Stock markets in the U.S. continue to experience volatile price and volume fluctuations. Such fluctuations, as well as general political conditions, the current poor economic conditions or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. 57 Table of Contents Adverse developments in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and our businesses, and may also limit our access to capital; our policyholders, reinsurers and retrocessionaires may also be affected by such developments, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Adverse developments in the financial markets, such as disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, may result in realized and unrealized capital losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and our businesses, and may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses on our investment portfolio in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. Current economic conditions could also have a material impact on the frequency and severity of claims and therefore could negatively impact our underwriting returns. In addition, our policyholders, reinsurers and retrocessionaires may be affected by such developments in the financial markets, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. The volatility in the financial markets could continue to significantly affect our investment returns, reported results and shareholders' equity. Our business is dependent upon insurance and reinsurance brokers and intermediaries, and the loss of important broker relationships could materially adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. We market our insurance and reinsurance products primarily through brokers and intermediaries. We derive a significant portion of our business from a limited number of brokers. During 2011, approximately 19.4% and 14.2% of our gross premiums written were generated from or placed by Aon Corporation and its subsidiaries and Marsh & McLennan Companies and its subsidiaries, respectively. No other broker and no one insured or reinsured accounted for more than 10% of gross premiums written for 2011. Some of our competitors have had longer term relationships with the brokers we use than we have, and the brokers may promote products offered by companies that may offer a larger variety of products than we do. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by these brokers could have a material adverse effect on us. We could be materially adversely affected to the extent that managing general agents, general agents and other producers exceed their underwriting authorities or if our agents, our insureds or other third parties commit fraud or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. For certain business conducted by our insurance group, following our underwriting, financial, claims and information technology due diligence reviews, we authorize managing general agents, general agents and other producers to write business on our behalf within underwriting authorities prescribed by us. We rely on the underwriting controls of these agents to write business within the underwriting authorities provided by us. Although we monitor such business on an ongoing basis, our monitoring efforts may not be adequate or our agents may exceed their underwriting authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. In addition, our agents, our insureds or other third parties may commit fraud or otherwise breach their obligations to us. To the extent that our agents, our insureds or other third parties exceed their underwriting authorities, commit fraud or otherwise breach obligations owed to us in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance recoverables and reliance on brokers (each discussed elsewhere in this section), we are exposed to credit risk in other areas of our business related to policyholders. We are exposed to credit risk in our insurance group's surety unit where we guarantee to a third party that our policyholder will satisfy certain 58 Table of Contents performance or financial obligations. If our policyholder defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our policyholder. We are exposed to credit risk in our insurance group's construction and national accounts units where we write large deductible insurance policies. Under these policies, we are typically obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim (shown as "contractholder payables" on our consolidated balance sheets). We are subsequently reimbursed by the policyholder for the deductible amount (shown as "contractholder receivables" on our consolidated balance sheets), which can be a set amount per claim and/or an aggregate amount for all covered claims. As such, we are exposed to credit risk from the policyholder. Additionally, we write retrospectively rated policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). In this instance, we are exposed to credit risk to the extent the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. While we generally seek to mitigate this risk through collateral agreements that require the posting of collateral in such forms as cash and letters of credit from banks, our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our policyholders may not be successful. Although we have not experienced any material credit losses to date, an increased inability of our policyholders to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. Our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. A significant portion of our cash and invested assets consists of fixed maturities (77.8% as of December 31, 2011). Although our current investment guidelines and approach stress preservation of capital, market liquidity and diversification of risk, our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations. In addition, we are subject to risks inherent in particular securities or types of securities, as well as sector concentrations. We may not be able to realize our investment objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In the event that we are unsuccessful in correlating our investment portfolio with our expected insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and ability to conduct our business. We may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including interest rate changes, as well as legislative changes. Our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains fixed and floating rate securities and instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on our financial results. For example, if interest rates increase, the value of our investment portfolio may decline. Although lower interest rates may increase the value of our portfolio, our investment income might suffer from the lower rates at which new cash could be deployed. In addition, our investment portfolio includes residential mortgage-backed securities ("MBS"). As of December 31, 2011, MBS constituted approximately 12.9% of our cash and invested assets. As with other fixed income investments, the fair value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to changes in the prepayment rate on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and MBS are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. Conversely, in periods of rising rates, mortgage prepayments generally fall, preventing us from taking full advantage of the higher level of rates. However, current economic conditions may curtail prepayment activity as refinancing becomes more difficult, thus limiting prepayments on MBS. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. and other major economies, inflation, economic and political conditions and other factors beyond 59 Table of Contents our control. Although we attempt to take measures to manage the risks of investing in changing interest rate environments, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Despite our mitigation efforts, an increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. Since 2007, the residential mortgage market in the U.S has experienced a variety of difficulties. Delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans generally have increased and may continue to increase, particularly in the subprime sector. In addition, during this period, residential property values in many states have declined or remained stable, after extended periods during which those values appreciated. A continued decline or an extended flattening in those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to second homes and investment properties, and with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. These developments may have a significant adverse effect on the prices of loans and securities, including those in our investment portfolio. The situation continues to have wide ranging consequences, including downward pressure on economic growth and the potential for increased insurance and reinsurance exposures, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, business and operations. Our portfolio includes commercial mortgage backed securities ("CMBS"). At December 31, 2011, CMBS constituted approximately 8.5% of our cash and invested assets. The commercial real estate market may experience price deterioration, which could lead to delinquencies and losses on commercial real estate mortgages. Market developments and government actions regarding the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, particularly in Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The global recession and disruption of the financial markets has led to concerns over access to capital markets and the solvency of EU Member States, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by, or the economies of, these countries. As of December 31, 2011, our investment portfolio does not contain significant investments in government bonds issued by Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain and in financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by, or the economies of, those countries (see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Investable Assets"). The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international financial support programs and the possibility that EU Member States may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. Recent rating agency downgrades on certain European sovereign debt, as well as downgrades on certain European financial institutions, and growing concern of the potential default of government issuers or of a possible withdrawal by one or more EU Member States from the Eurozone and/or a break-up of the EU has further contributed to this uncertainty. The negative impact of these events on economic conditions and global markets could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. For example, this crisis may cause the value of the European currencies, including the Euro, to further depreciate against the U.S. dollar, which in turn could materially adversely impact Euro-denominated assets held in our investment portfolio or our European book of business. In addition, the applicable legal framework and the terms of our Euro-denominated insurance policies and reinsurance agreements generally do not address withdrawal by a member state from the Eurozone or a break-up of the EU, which could create uncertainty in our payment obligations and rights under those policies and agreements in the event that such a withdrawal or break-up does occur. Additionally, a contagion effect of a possible default of one or more EU Member States and/or their withdrawal from the Eurozone, or the failure of financial institutions, on the global economy, including other EU Member States and our counterparties located in those countries, or a break-up of 60 Table of Contents the EU could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Certain of our investments are illiquid and are difficult to sell, or to sell in significant amounts at acceptable prices, to generate cash to meet our needs. Our investments in certain securities, including certain fixed income and structured securities, investments in funds accounted for using the equity method, other investments and our investment in Gulf Re (joint venture) may be illiquid due to contractual provisions or investment market conditions. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements, then we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or may be forced to sell or terminate them at unfavorable values. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. On a quarterly basis, we perform reviews of our investments to determine whether declines in fair value below the cost basis are considered other-than-temporary in accordance with applicable accounting guidance regarding the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments. The process of determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired requires judgment and involves analyzing many factors. These factors include (i) an analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer, (ii) the time period in which there was a significant decline in value, (iii) the significance of the decline, and (iv) the analysis of specific credit events. We evaluate the unrealized losses of our equity securities by issuer and determine if we can forecast a reasonable period of time by which the fair value of the securities would increase and we would recover our cost. If we are unable to forecast a reasonable period of time in which to recover the cost of our equity securities, we record a net impairment loss in earnings equivalent to the entire unrealized loss. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. We monitor our capital adequacy on a regular basis. The capital requirements of our business depend on many factors, including regulatory requirements, our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Our ability to underwrite is largely dependent upon the quality of our claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to fund our future operating requirements and/or cover claim losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding securities. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to access the capital necessary to develop our business and replace, in a timely manner, our letters of credit facilities upon maturity. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. If we are not able to obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of 61 Table of Contents Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources." We sold our prior reinsurance operations in May 2000 and may have liability to the purchaser and continuing liability from those reinsurance operations if the purchaser should fail to make payments on the reinsurance liabilities it assumed. On May 5, 2000, we sold our prior reinsurance operations to Sirius America Reinsurance Company ("Sirius America"), formerly known as White Mountains Reinsurance Company of America. The Sirius America transaction was structured as a transfer and assumption agreement (and not reinsurance), and, accordingly, the loss reserves (and any related reinsurance recoverables) relating to the transferred business are not included as assets or liabilities on our balance sheet. In addition, in connection with that asset sale, we made extensive representations and warranties about us and our reinsurance operations, some of which survived the closing of the asset sale. Breach of these representations and warranties could result in liability for us. In the event that Sirius America refuses or is unable to make payment for reserved losses transferred to it by us in the May 2000 sale and the notice given to reinsureds is found not to be an effective release by such reinsureds, we would be liable for such claims. A.M. Best has assigned an "A" (Excellent) financial strength rating to Sirius America. Sirius America reported policyholders' surplus of $746 million at September 30, 2011. Any future acquisitions, growth of our operations through the addition of new lines of insurance or reinsurance business through our existing subsidiaries or through the formation of new subsidiaries, expansion into new geographic regions and/or joint ventures or partnerships may expose us to risks. We may in the future make strategic acquisitions either of other companies or selected blocks of business, expand our business lines or enter into joint ventures. Any future acquisitions may expose us to challenges and risks, including: •integrating financial and operational reporting systems and establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls; •funding increased capital needs, overhead expenses or cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated sales and revenues are not realized or are delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties; •obtaining management personnel required for expanded operations; •obtaining necessary regulatory permissions; •the value of assets acquired may be lower than expected or may diminish due to credit defaults or changes in interest rates and liabilities assumed may be greater than expected; •the assets and liabilities we may acquire may be subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; and •financial exposures in the event that the sellers of the entities we acquire are unable or unwilling to meet their indemnification, reinsurance and other obligations to us. Our failure to manage successfully these operational challenges and risks may impact our results of operations. In addition, if the reserves established by us, as they relate to any acquired book of business, prove to be inadequate, then subject to whatever recourse we may have against the seller or reinsurers, we may be responsible for adverse development in such reserves. 62 Table of Contents Some of the provisions of our bye-laws and our shareholders agreement may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers or changes in management initiated by shareholders. These provisions may also prevent our shareholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover. Some provisions of our bye-laws could have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or changes in management initiated by shareholders. These provisions may encourage companies interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors, since the board has the authority to overrule the operation of several of the limitations. Among other things, our bye-laws provide: •for a classified board of directors, in which the directors of the class elected at each annual general meeting holds office for a term of three years, with the term of each class expiring at successive annual general meetings of shareholders; •that the number of directors is determined by the board from time to time by a vote of the majority of our board; •that directors may only be removed for cause, and cause removal shall be deemed to exist only if the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted of a felony or been found by a court to be liable for gross negligence or misconduct in the performance of his or her duties; •that our board has the right to fill vacancies, including vacancies created by an expansion of the board; and •for limitations on shareholders' right to call special general meetings and to raise proposals or nominate directors at general meetings. Our bye-laws provide that certain provisions which may have anti-takeover effects may be repealed or altered only with prior board approval and upon the affirmative vote of holders of shares representing at least 65% of the total voting power of our shares entitled generally to vote at an election of directors. The bye-laws also contain a provision limiting the rights of any U.S. person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code")) that owns shares of ACGL, directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code), representing more than 9.9% of the voting power of all shares entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. The votes conferred by such shares of such U.S. person will be reduced by whatever amount is necessary so that after any such reduction the votes conferred by the shares of such person will constitute 9.9% of the total voting power of all shares entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. Notwithstanding this provision, the board may make such final adjustments to the aggregate number of votes conferred by the shares of any U.S. person that the board considers fair and reasonable in all circumstances to ensure that such votes represent 9.9% of the aggregate voting power of the votes conferred by all shares of ACGL entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. ACGL will assume that all shareholders (other than specified persons) are U.S. persons unless we receive assurance satisfactory to us that they are not U.S. persons. Moreover, most states, including states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled, have laws and regulations that require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurer or an insurer's holding company. Where such laws apply to us and our subsidiaries, there can be no effective change in our control unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement with the regulators and has obtained prior approval for the proposed change from such regulators. The usual measure for a presumptive change in control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting power of the insurance company or its parent, although this presumption is rebuttable. Consequently, a 63 Table of Contents person may not acquire 10% or more of our common shares without the prior approval of insurance regulators in the state in which our subsidiaries are domiciled. The bye-laws also provide that the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of the outstanding voting power of our shares (excluding shares owned by any person (and such person's affiliates and associates) that is the owner of 15% or more (a "15% Holder") of our outstanding voting shares) shall be required for various corporate actions, including: •merger or consolidation of the company into a 15% Holder; •sale of any or all of our assets to a 15% Holder; •the issuance of voting securities to a 15% Holder; or •amendment of these provisions; provided, however, the supermajority vote will not apply to any transaction approved by the board. The provisions described above may have the effect of making more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties. To the extent that these effects occur, shareholders could be deprived of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares and the market price of their shares could be depressed. In addition, these provisions could also result in the entrenchment of incumbent management. Our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation in various jurisdictions, and material changes in the regulation of their operations could adversely affect us. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which they are licensed or authorized to do business. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which may include trade and claim practices, accounting methods, premium rates, marketing practices, claims practices, advertising, policy forms, and capital adequacy. These agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Moreover, insurance laws and regulations, among other things: •establish solvency requirements, including minimum reserves and capital and surplus requirements; •limit the amount of dividends, tax distributions, intercompany loans and other payments our insurance subsidiaries can make without prior regulatory approval; •impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments we may hold; •require assessments through guaranty funds to pay claims of insolvent insurance companies; and •require participation in state-assigned risk plans which may take the form of reinsuring a portion of a pool of policies or the direct issuance of policies to insureds. The NAIC continuously examines existing laws and regulations in the U.S. We cannot predict the effect that any NAIC recommendations or proposed or future legislation or rule making in the U.S. or elsewhere may have on our financial condition or operations. Our Bermuda insurance and reinsurance subsidiary, Arch Re Bermuda, conducts its business from its offices in Bermuda and is not licensed or admitted to do business in any jurisdiction except Bermuda. We do not believe that Arch Re Bermuda is subject to the insurance laws of any state in the U.S.; however, recent scrutiny of the insurance and reinsurance industry in the U.S. and other countries could subject Arch Re Bermuda to additional regulation. Our U.S. reinsurance subsidiary, Arch Re U.S., and our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, Arch Insurance, Arch Specialty, Arch E&S and Arch Indemnity, write reinsurance and insurance in the U.S. These subsidiaries are subject to extensive 64 Table of Contents regulation under state statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance commissioners. Such regulation generally is designed to protect policyholders rather than investors. In addition, the Canadian branch of Arch Insurance writes insurance in Canada and is subject to federal, as well as provincial and territorial, regulation in Canada. Arch Insurance Europe conducts its business from London and branch offices in certain EU countries and is subject to the insurance regulations of the U.K. Arch Risk Partners is also based in the U.K. and subject to U.K. regulations. Arch Re Europe and Arch Mortgage, our subsidiaries in Ireland, conduct their business from Ireland and Arch Re Europe's branches in Switzerland and Denmark. Both are subject to the regulations of Ireland. Arch Insurance Europe, Arch Re Europe and Arch Mortgage are also subject to the EU regulations and regulations of the respective EU Member States where they have established branches or in which they conduct business with respect to the conduct of their business in such EU Member State, but each company remains subject only to the financial and operational supervision by the FSA, in the case of Arch Insurance Europe, and the CBOI, in the case of Arch Re Europe. Arch Insurance Europe, Arch Mortgage and Arch Re Europe have the freedom to provide their respective insurance and reinsurance services anywhere in the EEA subject to compliance with certain rules governing such provision, including notification to the FSA and the CBOI, respectively. Arch Insurance Company Europe is also approved as an excess and surplus lines insurer in 27 states and the District of Columbia in the U.S. Our U.S., Bermuda, U.K. and Ireland subsidiaries and the Canadian branch of Arch Insurance are required to maintain minimum capital and surplus as mandated by their respective jurisdictions of incorporation and, in some cases, by the jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries write business. Arch Insurance Company Europe is required to maintain minimum capital surplus as mandated by the NAIC and certain states where it is approved as an excess and surplus lines insurer. All of our subsidiaries are currently in compliance with these capital and surplus requirements. We periodically review our corporate structure so that we can optimally deploy our capital. Changes in that structure require regulatory approval. Delays or failure in obtaining any of these approvals could limit the amount of insurance that we can write in the U.S. If ACGL or any of our subsidiaries were to become subject to the laws of a new jurisdiction in which such entity is not presently admitted, ACGL or such subsidiary may not be in compliance with the laws of the new jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our Bermuda principal operating subsidiary becomes subject to insurance statutes and regulations in jurisdictions other than Bermuda or if there is a change in Bermuda law or regulations or the application of Bermuda law or regulations, there could be a significant and negative impact on our business. Arch Re Bermuda, our Bermuda insurance and reinsurance subsidiary, is a registered Bermuda Class 4 general business insurer and as a Class C long-term business insurer. As such, it is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Bermuda insurance statutes and the regulations and policies of the BMA require Arch Re Bermuda to, among other things: •maintain a minimum level of capital and surplus; •maintain an enhanced capital requirement, general and long-term business solvency margins and a minimum liquidity ratio (for general business); •restrict dividends and distributions; •obtain prior approval regarding the ownership and transfer of shares; 65 Table of Contents •maintain a principal office and appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda; •file annual financial statements, an annual statutory financial return and an annual capital and solvency return; and •allow for the performance of certain period examinations of Arch Re Bermuda and its financial condition. These statutes and regulations may restrict our ability to write insurance and reinsurance policies, distribute funds and pursue our investment strategy. We do not presently intend for Arch Re Bermuda to be admitted to do business in the U.S., U.K. or any jurisdiction other than Bermuda. However, we cannot assure you that insurance regulators in the U.S., U.K. or elsewhere will not review the activities or Arch Re Bermuda or its subsidiaries or agents and assert that Arch Re Bermuda is subject to such jurisdiction's licensing requirements. Generally, Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations applicable to Arch Re Bermuda are less restrictive than those that would be applicable if they were governed by the laws of any states in the U.S. If in the future we become subject to any insurance laws of the U.S. or any state thereof or of any other jurisdiction, we cannot assure you that we would be in compliance with such laws or that complying with such laws would not have a significant and negative effect on our business. The process of obtaining licenses is very time consuming and costly, and Arch Re Bermuda may not be able to become licensed in jurisdictions other than Bermuda should we choose to do so. The modification of the conduct of our business that would result if we were required or chose to become licensed in certain jurisdictions could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to comply with insurance statutes and regulations could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by limiting our ability to conduct business as well as subject us to penalties and fines. Because Arch Re Bermuda is a Bermuda company, it is subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including through the imposition of tax liability or increased regulatory supervision. In addition, Arch Re Bermuda will be exposed to any changes in the political environment in Bermuda, including, without limitation, changes as a result of the independence issues currently being discussed in Bermuda. The Bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.K. The European Commission will not take a final decision on whether or not it will recognize the solvency regime in Bermuda to be equivalent to that laid down in Solvency II until 2013. While we cannot predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulation to which we are or may become subject, any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ACGL is a holding company and is dependent on dividends and other payments from its operating subsidiaries, which are subject to dividend restrictions, to make payments, including the payment of debt service obligations and operating expenses we may incur and any payments of dividends, redemption amounts or liquidation amounts with respect to our preferred shares and common shares. ACGL is a holding company whose assets primarily consist of the shares in our subsidiaries. Generally, ACGL depends on its available cash resources, liquid investments and dividends or other distributions from subsidiaries to make payments, including the payment of debt service obligations and operating expenses it may incur and any payments of dividends, redemption amounts or liquidation amounts with respect to our preferred shares and common shares, and to fund the share repurchase program. The ability of our regulated insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions is dependent on their ability to meet applicable regulatory standards. In addition, the ability of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to ACGL and to intermediate 66 Table of Contents parent companies owned by ACGL could be constrained by our dependence on financial strength ratings from independent rating agencies. Our ratings from these agencies depend to a large extent on the capitalization levels of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. We believe that ACGL has sufficient cash resources and available dividend capacity to service its indebtedness and other current outstanding obligations. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Capital Resources." If our Bermuda reinsurance subsidiary is unable to provide collateral to ceding companies, its ability to conduct business could be significantly and negatively affected. Arch Re Bermuda is a registered Bermuda insurance company and is not licensed or admitted as an insurer in any jurisdiction in the U.S. Because insurance regulations in the U.S. do not uniformly permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless security is posted, Arch Re Bermuda's contracts generally require it to post a letter of credit or provide other security. Although, to date, Arch Re Bermuda has not experienced any difficulties in providing collateral when required, if we are unable to post security in the form of letters of credit or trust funds when required, the operations of Arch Re Bermuda could be significantly and negatively affected. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may adversely affect our financial results. We write business on a worldwide basis, and our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the value of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. The primary foreign currencies in which we operate are the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and the Canadian Dollar. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can reduce our revenues, increase our liabilities and costs and cause fluctuations in the valuation of our investment portfolio. We may therefore suffer losses solely as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. In order to mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our net insurance liabilities, we have invested and expect to continue to invest in securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. In addition, we may replicate investment positions in foreign currencies using derivative financial instruments. Net foreign exchange gains, recorded in the statement of income, were $17.4 million and $28.1 million, respectively, for 2011 and 2010, compared to net foreign exchange losses of $39.2 million for 2009. Changes in the value of investments due to foreign currency rate movements are reflected as a direct increase or decrease to shareholders' equity and are not included in the statement of income. We have chosen not to hedge certain currency risks on capital contributed to our subsidiaries, including to Arch Insurance Europe in May 2004, which is held in British Pounds Sterling, and may continue to choose not to hedge our currency risks. There can be no assurances that arrangements to match projected liabilities in foreign currencies with investments in the same currencies or derivative financial instruments will mitigate the negative impact of exchange rate fluctuations, and we may suffer losses solely as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Certain employees of our Bermuda operations are required to obtain work permits before engaging in a gainful occupation in Bermuda. Required work permits may not be granted or may not remain in effect. Under Bermuda law, only persons who are Bermudians, spouses of Bermudians, holders of a permanent resident's certificate or holders of a working resident's certificate ("exempted persons") may engage in gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Our success may depend in part on the continued services of key employees in Bermuda. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no exempted person is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer. The Bermuda government's policy places a six-year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to certain 67 Table of Contents exemptions for key employees. A work permit is issued with an expiry date (up to five years) and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. We consider our key officers in Bermuda who require work permits to be Constantine Iordanou, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (work permit expires November 12, 2014), John C.R. Hele, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (work permit expires April 1, 2014), Marc Grandisson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Arch Worldwide Reinsurance Group (work permit expires May 12, 2015), and Nicolas Papadopoulo, President and Chief Executive Officer of Arch Re Bermuda (work permit expires March 31, 2015). We also have other key positions in Bermuda held by persons who hold work permits subject to renewal. If work permits are not obtained or renewed for our principal employees, we could lose their services, which could materially affect our business. The enforcement of civil liabilities against us may be difficult. We are a Bermuda company and some of our officers and directors are residents of various jurisdictions outside the U.S. All or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those persons may be located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the U.S. upon those persons or to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against those persons. We have appointed National Registered Agents, Inc., New York, New York, as our agent for service of process with respect to actions based on offers and sales of securities made in the U.S. We have been advised by our special Bermuda legal counsel, Conyers Dill & Pearman Limited, that the U.S. and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters and that a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the U.S. based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws, would, therefore, not be automatically enforceable in Bermuda. We also have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman Limited that a final and conclusive judgment obtained in a court in the U.S. under which a sum of money is payable as compensatory damages (i.e., not being a sum claimed by a revenue authority for taxes or other charges of a similar nature by a governmental authority, or in respect of a fine or penalty or multiple or punitive damages) may be the subject of an action on a debt in the Supreme Court of Bermuda under the common law doctrine of obligation. Such an action should be successful upon proof that the sum of money is due and payable, and without having to prove the facts supporting the underlying judgment, as long as: •the court which gave the judgment had proper jurisdiction over the parties to such judgment; •such court did not contravene the rules of natural justice of Bermuda; •such judgment was not obtained by fraud; •the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of Bermuda; •no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of Bermuda; and •there is due compliance with the correct procedures under Bermuda law. A Bermuda court may impose civil liability on us or our directors or officers in a suit brought in the Supreme Court of Bermuda against us or such persons with respect to a violation of U.S. federal securities laws, provided that the facts surrounding such violation would constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. 68 Table of Contents Risk Relating to our Preferred Shares General market conditions and unpredictable factors could adversely affect market prices for our outstanding preferred shares. There can be no assurance about the market prices for any series of our preferred shares. Several factors, many of which are beyond our control, will influence the fair value of such series of preferred shares. Factors that might influence the fair value of any series of our preferred shares include, but are not limited to: •whether dividends have been declared and are likely to be declared on any series of our preferred shares from time to time; •our creditworthiness, financial condition, performance and prospects; •whether the ratings on any series of our preferred shares provided by any ratings agency have changed; •the market for similar securities; and •economic, financial, geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events that affect us and/or the insurance or financial markets generally. Dividends on our preferred shares are non-cumulative. Dividends on our preferred shares are non-cumulative and payable only out of lawfully available funds of ACGL under Bermuda law. Consequently, if ACGL's board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period with respect to any series of our preferred shares, holders of such preferred shares would not be entitled to receive any such dividend, and such unpaid dividend will not accrue and will never be payable. ACGL will have no obligation to pay dividends for a dividend period on or after the dividend payment date for such period if its board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) has not declared such dividend before the related dividend payment date; if dividends on any series of our preferred shares are authorized and declared with respect to any subsequent dividend period, ACGL will be free to pay dividends on any other series of preferred shares and/or our common shares. In the past, we have not paid dividends on our common shares. Our preferred shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. Our preferred shares are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, our preferred shares will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and other non-equity claims with respect to assets available to satisfy our claims, including in our liquidation. As of December 31, 2011, our total consolidated long-term debt was $400.0 million, excluding TALF borrowings. We may incur additional debt in the future. Our existing and future indebtedness may restrict payments of dividends on our preferred shares. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred shares like our preferred shares, (1) dividends are payable only if declared by the board of directors of ACGL (or a duly authorized committee of the board) and (2) as described above under "—Risks Relating to Our Company—ACGL is a holding company and is dependent on dividends and other payments from its operating subsidiaries, which are subject to dividend restrictions, to make payments, including the payment of debt service obligations and operating expenses we may incur and any payments of dividends, redemption amounts or liquidation amounts with respect to our preferred shares and common shares," we are subject to certain regulatory and other constraints affecting our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. 69 Table of Contents The voting rights of holders of our preferred shares are limited. Holders of our preferred shares have no voting rights with respect to matters that generally require the approval of voting shareholders. The limited voting rights of holders of our preferred shares include the right to vote as a class on certain fundamental matters that affect the preference or special rights of our preferred shares as set forth in the certificate of designations relating to each series of preferred shares. In addition, if dividends on any series of our preferred shares have not been declared or paid for the equivalent of six dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, holders of the outstanding preferred shares of any series will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors to our board of directors subject to the terms and to the limited extent as set forth in the certificate of designations relating to such series of preferred shares. There is no limitation on our issuance of securities that rank equally with or senior to our preferred shares. We may issue additional securities that rank equally with or senior to our preferred shares without limitation. The issuance of securities ranking equally with or senior to our preferred shares may reduce the amount available for dividends and the amount recoverable by holders of such series in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of ACGL. We may be impacted by regulatory initiatives affecting our preferred shares. Our preferred shares may not qualify as Tier 2 capital after January 1, 2024 under the BMA's current rules, which come into force on January 1, 2013. Under current BMA regulations, our preferred shares will not be treated as Tier 2 capital after January 1, 2024 because the terms of our preferred shares do not meet the requirement that the payment of dividends would be cancelled or indefinitely deferred if our ECR is breached. While the BMA may consider exceptions to these rules, there is no assurance they will grant exceptions or that we will be successful in obtaining such an exception. We cannot predict how regulatory changes in other jurisdictions may affect these rules, if at all. Risks Relating to Taxation We and our non-U.S. subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. federal income taxation. ACGL and its non-U.S. subsidiaries intend to operate their business in a manner that will not cause them to be treated as engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. and, thus, will not be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes (other than U.S. excise taxes on insurance and reinsurance premium and withholding taxes on certain U.S. source investment income) on their income. However, because there is uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., there can be no assurances that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") will not contend successfully that ACGL or its non-U.S. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. If ACGL or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries were subject to U.S. income tax, our shareholders' equity and earnings could be adversely affected. Congress has been considering legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of Bermuda and other non-U.S. insurance companies and U.S. insurance companies having Bermuda and other non-U.S. affiliates, including perceived tax benefits resulting principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates. Some U.S. insurance companies have also been lobbying Congress recently to pass such legislation. In this regard, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Jobs Act") permits the IRS to re-allocate, re-characterize or adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper source, character and amount for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered source and character). The Jobs Act also eliminated the tax benefits available to a U.S. company that, after March 4, 2003, changed its legal domicile to a non-U.S. jurisdiction, a transaction 70 Table of Contents commonly known as an inversion. We changed our legal domicile from the U.S. to Bermuda, but were not affected by the anti-inversion rule because our change in domicile occurred in November 2000. The American Infrastructure Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 as passed by the Senate Finance Committee would have made the Jobs Act anti-inversion rule applicable retroactively to inversions that occurred after March 20, 2002. Although this modification would not affect ACGL, no assurance can be given that if reintroduced in the current Congress the final bill will not make the Jobs Act anti-inversion rule applicable retroactively to inversions that occurred on an earlier date, in which case ACGL could be adversely affected. A recently reintroduced legislative proposal would treat certain foreign corporations as U.S. corporations if such corporation is primarily managed and controlled within the U.S. While we believe ACGL is not primarily managed and controlled within the U.S., there is no assurance that the proposal would not apply to ACGL. Another legislative proposal would treat a foreign corporation as a U.S. corporation if it is determined that the foreign corporation was formed or organized principally for the purpose of avoiding being treated as a U.S. corporation. It is uncertain whether this proposal would apply to ACGL, but it would adversely affect us if enacted and found to apply. Another legislative proposal has been introduced that would treat certain "tax haven CFCs" as U.S. corporations for federal income tax purposes. The term "tax haven CFC" would include a Bermuda corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation, but would exclude corporations that engage in the active conduct of a trade or business in Bermuda. It is not clear how this bill would apply to ACGL, which conducts its insurance and reinsurance businesses through its subsidiaries. Further, it is not clear whether this bill was intended to apply to a publicly traded company such as ACGL. There is no assurance that this legislative proposal, if enacted, would not apply to ACGL or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, Congress has conducted hearings relating to the tax treatment of reinsurance between affiliates and is reported to be considering legislation that would adversely affect reinsurance between U.S. and non-U.S. affiliates. One such proposal would increase the excise tax rate on reinsurance premiums paid to affiliated non-U.S. reinsurers. A legislative proposal in the House of Representatives as well as a prior Senate Finance Committee staff discussion draft and other prior proposals would limit deductions for premiums ceded to affiliated non-U.S. reinsurers above certain levels. The Administration's Fiscal Year 2013 Revenue Proposals contain a similar but more restrictive provision that would deny deductions for all premiums ceded to affiliated non-U.S. reinsurers, offset by an exclusion for any ceding commissions received or reinsurance recovered from such affiliates. Two legislative proposals (i.e., H.R. 3157 and S. 1963) introduced during the current (i.e., 112th) Congress appear to adopt the provision contained in the Administration's Fiscal Year 2013 Revenue Proposals. Enactment of such legislation or proposal as well as other changes in U.S. tax laws, regulations and interpretations thereof to address these issues could adversely affect us. Reduced tax rate for qualified dividend income received by individuals and other non-corporate holders may not be available in the future. Dividends received by individuals and other non-corporate U.S. persons on our common shares or preferred shares in taxable years beginning on or before December 31, 2012 may constitute qualified dividend income that is subject to U.S. federal income tax at the rate applicable for long-term capital gains, rather than the higher rates applicable to ordinary income, provided that certain holding period requirements and other conditions are met. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012, qualified dividend income will no longer be taxed at the rate applicable for long-term capital gains unless legislation is enacted providing otherwise. In addition, there has been proposed legislation before both Houses of Congress that would exclude shareholders of certain foreign corporations from this advantageous tax treatment. If such legislation were to become law, non-corporate U.S. shareholders would no longer qualify for the capital gains tax rate on the dividends paid by us. 71 Table of Contents Our non-U.S. companies may be subject to U.K. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than our U.K. subsidiaries ("U.K. Group"), should be resident in the U.K. for tax purposes or have a permanent establishment in the U.K. Accordingly, we do not expect that any companies other than U.K. Group should be subject to U.K. taxation. However, since applicable law and regulations do not specifically and conclusively define the activities that constitute conducting business in the U.K. through a permanent establishment, HM Revenue and Customs might contend successfully that one or more of our companies, in addition to the U.K. Group, is conducting business in the U.K. through a permanent establishment in the U.K. and, therefore, subject to U.K. tax, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on income, profits, withholding, capital gains or capital transfers. Furthermore, we have obtained from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act, 1966, an assurance that, in the event that Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of the tax will not be applicable to us or our operations until March 31, 2035. We could be subject to taxes in Bermuda after that date. This assurance does not, however, prevent the imposition of taxes on any person ordinarily resident in Bermuda or any company in respect of its ownership of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 