Risk Factors We have risks relating to liquidity. We have not yet been able to obtain operating profitability and may not be able to be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, in their report prepared in conjunction with our December 31, 2008 financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm, Amper, Politziner & Mattia LLP, included an explanatory paragraph stating that, because the Company has incurred recurring net losses, has an accumulated deficit and has a working capital deficiency as of December 31, 2008, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s initiatives over the last two years, including the restructurings in February 2009, December 2008 and 2007, the executive management salary reductions for 2009, 2008 and 2007, securing additional convertible debt financing in May 2007, November 2007, July 2008 and October 2008, and the Sand Hill Finance financing agreement have been designed to improve operating results and liquidity and better position AXS-One to compete under current market conditions. However, we are required to seek new sources of financing or future accommodations from our existing lenders or other financial institutions, or we may seek equity or debt infusions from private investors. Our recent cost reductions will allow us to become profitable at lower revenue levels than in prior years. However, our ability to fund our operations is dependent on our continued sales of our Integrated Content Arching software at levels sufficient to achieve profitable operations. We may also be required to further reduce 8 Table of Contents operating costs in order to meet our obligations if deemed necessary. As of April 8, 2009, the Company’s cash position has reduced to $742,000, which includes $850,000 borrowed on our bank credit line. Additionally, the Company’s convertible debt approximating $13 million at April 8, 2009 matures on May 29, 2009 and the Company does not have the capital to pay these notes, and accordingly, such notes will need to be restructured. If we are unable to achieve profitable operations or secure additional sources of capital in the near term, in addition to restructuring our convertible debt, there would be substantial doubt about our ability to fund future operations through the second quarter of 2009. Management could also consider merger and acquisition activity. No assurance can be given that management’s initiatives will be successful or that any such additional sources of financing, lender accommodations, or equity or debt infusions will be available. We have a previous history of net losses. AXS-One incurred losses of $10.1 million and $14.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We may not be able to be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $110.3 million. Additionally, AXS-One’s revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, causing our common stock price to be volatile and may cause the market price to fall. A variety of factors, many of which are not in our control, cause these fluctuations and include, among others: • the proportion of revenues we earn from license fees versus fees for the services we provide, • the number of partners selling our products and their continued willingness to do so, • the number of third parties we use to perform services, • the amount of revenues we generate from our sale of third party software, • demand for our products, • the size and timing of individual license transactions, • the products and enhancements that we, or our competitors, introduce, • changes in our customers’ budgets, • potential customers’ unwillingness to undertake major expenditures with us due to our past operating results, • availability or changes to third party products, • new or emerging technologies, • competitive conditions in the industry and general economic conditions, and • unrest in the Middle East or other world events. Additionally, clients’ licensing of our products is often delayed because: • our clients must commit a significant amount of capital, • frequently, a license purchase must be authorized through the multiple channels within a client’s organization, and • sales are driven through our partners, reducing our control over the sales cycle. Because of these reasons, as well as others, our products’ sales cycles are typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks over which we often have little or no control which include a customer’s budgetary constraints and internal authorization reviews. Historically, AXS-One has operated with a small license backlog, since products are generally shipped as we receive orders. Because our license fees in any quarter substantially depend on orders booked and 9 Table of Contents shipped in the last month, and often during the last week, of a given quarter, our revenues have been back-end loaded and subject to fluctuation. Delays in the timing of when we recognize specific revenues may adversely and disproportionately affect our operating results because: • a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and • only a small percentage of our operating expenses vary with our revenues. Because of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and one should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results to be indicative of our future performance. Additionally, our business has experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, significant seasonality due, in part, to our customers’ buying patterns, caused primarily by: • our customers’ budgeting and purchasing patterns, and • our sales commission policies. Generally, we compensate our sales personnel based on quarterly and annual performance quotas. We expect that these patterns will likely continue in the future. As a result of these factors, in future quarters, our operating results may be significantly lower than the estimates of public market analysts and investors. Any discrepancy could cause the price of our common stock to be volatile and to decline significantly. We can give no assurance that we will be profitable in any future quarter. Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about AXS-One’s ability to continue as a going concern. In their report prepared in conjunction with our December 31, 2008 financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm, Amper, Politziner & Mattia LLP, included an explanatory paragraph stating that, because the Company has incurred recurring net losses, has an accumulated deficit and has a working capital deficiency as of December 31, 2008, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Although management’s plans to continue as a going concern are set forth in Note 1 to the financial statements set forth herein, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful. The market in which we compete is intensely competitive. AXS-One can give no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our market is intensely competitive and changing rapidly. A number of companies offer products similar to ours and target the same customers. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors, many of which are not in our control, including, among others, • timing and market acceptance of new products and enhancements developed by us, as well as by our competitors, • whether our products are reliable, how they function, perform, and are priced, • our customer service and support, • our sales and marketing efforts, and • our product distribution. AXS-One software products are positioned in a highly dynamic market. Our competitors within the Integrated Content Archiving market include Autonomy, Computer Associates, EMC, Hewlett Packard, 10 Table of Contents IBM, OpenText and Symantec. There are also a growing number of smaller, niche vendors targeting specific areas of this market worldwide. Most of our competitors are substantially larger than us, and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and extensive direct and indirect distribution channels. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to developing, promoting and selling their products than we can. Additionally, our competitors often have stronger financial positions than we do, and use that fact as an advantage during the selling process. Our products also compete with those offered by other vendors and with proprietary software developed by third-party professional service organizations, as well as by potential customers’ management information systems departments. As our market continues to develop and expand, we expect established and emerging companies to compete with us due to the relatively low barriers to entry within the software market. We expect that competition will also increase as the software industry consolidates. During 2008, we saw the acquisition trend continue with competitors in the Integrated Content Arching market being acquired by large companies with significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. Furthermore, we cannot assure anyone that any of the companies with whom we currently have relationships, most of which may have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do, will not, in the future, develop or market software products that compete with our products, or discontinue their relationship or support of us. Additionally, our current and potential competitors have established, or may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their products’ ability to address the needs of our prospective customers. Therefore, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire a significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in: • reducing the price of our products, • reducing our gross margins, and • losing our market share. Any of these factors would adversely affect our business, our operating results and financial condition. AXS-One depends on one principal suite of products for its revenues. We depend on our Integrated Content Arching software for substantially all our revenue. The market for these products is relatively new and evolving rapidly. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend, in part, on: • achieving broader market acceptance of our products and services, • expanding our relationships with vendors in the hosting and emerging subscription market as well as our Value-Added Reseller network worldwide, • expanding our relationships with systems integrators, • maintaining our existing customer base, • expanding our customer base, as well as • enhancing our products and services to meet our customers’ evolving needs. Additionally, during 2009, our AXS-One Compliance Platform needs to gain greater market acceptance. If: • demand in the market for our type of software is reduced, • competition increases, or • sales of such products or services decline, 11 Table of Contents any of these factors could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Deterioration in general economic conditions has caused and could cause additional decreases or delays in spending by our customers and could harm our ability to generate license revenues and our results of operations. The state of the global economy and availability of capital has and could further impact the spending patterns of existing and potential future customers. Any reduction in spending by, or loss of, existing or potential future customers would cause our revenues to decline. Further, we may be unable to adjust our expenses and capital expenditures quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Software purchases tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Since we derive most of our revenues from sales of software licenses, the current deterioration in economic conditions has caused and could cause additional decreases in or delays in software spending and is likely to reduce our software license revenues and negatively impact our short term ability to grow our revenues. Further, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable or early termination of agreements due to the current deterioration in economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations. AXS-One has a concentration of revenues from certain customers. During the last two years, AXS-One has generated a significant amount of revenues from a select number of customers. Because of the size of certain of our customers, it is likely that they will continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues especially in our services revenue area. If any of these customers should discontinue their business with us, it could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There is no assurance that we would be able to replace these lost revenues with revenues from new or other existing customers. During the last two years, AXS-One has generated a significant amount of revenues from a select number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, one customer represented 13.3% of total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2007, two customers represented 12.3% and 11.6% individually, of total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2008, two customers represented 22.7% and 13.8%, individually, of license revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2007, three customers represented 22.9%, 20.5%, and 15.2%, individually, of license revenue. No one customer represented more than 10.0% of service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. One customer represented 10.7% of service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company’s reselling partners generated 10% and 30% of license revenue, respectively. AXS-One’s market is characterized by new products frequently being introduced, rapid technology changes, product defect risks, and development delays. If AXS-One is unable, for technological, financial or other reasons, whether or not within its control, to develop and introduce new products or enhancements in a timely manner to respond to changing customer requirements, technological change or emerging industry standards, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. Our software performance, customization, reporting capabilities, or other business objectives may or may not be affected by these changes and may or may not render us incapable of meeting future customer software demands. Introducing products embodying new technologies and emerging industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Accordingly, it is difficult to estimate our products’ life cycles. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and introduce new modules for the AXS-One Compliance Platform that respond to evolving customer requirements and keep pace with technological development and emerging industry standards, such as new: • operating systems, • hardware platforms, 12 Table of Contents • new environments such as subscription and hosting providers, • interfaces, and • third party hardware and application software. We can give no assurance that: • we will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products that respond to: • technological change, • changes in customer requirements, or • emerging industry standards. • we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent our successfully developing, introducing and marketing new products and enhancements, or • any new products or enhancements that we may introduce will be accepted by our target market. Software products as comprehensive as those we offer often encounter development delays and, when introduced or when new versions are released, may contain undetected errors or may simply fail. These delays, errors or failures create a risk that the software will not operate correctly and could cause our future operating results to fall short of expectations published by certain public market financial analysts or others. From time to time, we develop products that are intended to be compatible with various new computer operating systems, although we make no assurances that we will successfully develop software products that will be compatible with additional operating systems or that will perform as we intend. Additionally, our products, technologies and our business in general rely upon third-party products from various sources including, among others: • hardware and software vendors, • relational database management systems vendors, • ERP software vendors, • reporting software vendors, • open source community, • IM software vendors, or • e-mail system vendors. In the future, it is unclear whether our dependence upon these third-party products will affect our ability to support or make our products readily available. In the past, we have experienced delays by third parties who develop software that our products depend upon. These hold ups have resulted in delays in developing and shipping our products. Despite testing by us as well as by our current and potential customers, errors may be found in new products or enhancements after we ship them that can delay or adversely affect market acceptance. We cannot assure anyone that any of these problems would not adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be successful in convincing customers to migrate to future releases of our products. Our customers may not be willing to incur the costs or invest the resources necessary to complete upgrades to current or future releases of our products. This may lead to our loss of services, maintenance, and other support revenues, as well as less future business from customers that continue to operate prior versions of our products. 13 Table of Contents An investment in our common stock may be less attractive because it is not traded on a recognized public market. Our common stock has traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB since our common stock was delisted from the American Stock Exchange on November 5, 2007. The OTCBB is viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our common stock. Our common stock may in the future become subject to Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (as defined in Rule 501(c) of the Securities Act). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule would adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and purchasers of our common stock to sell their shares of our common stock. Additionally, our common stock may in the future be subject to SEC regulations applicable to “penny stock.” Penny stock includes any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule proscribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered by a broker-dealer to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for our common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock that disclose recent price information for the penny stock and information of the limited market for penny stocks. If we were to become subject to these requirements, they would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. In the future, AXS-One may not have sufficient capital resources to fully carry out its business plans. Our ability to carry out our future business plans and achieve the anticipated results will be affected by the amount of cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2008 the Company had $933,000 of cash and cash equivalents including $243,000 held by our foreign operations. As of April 8, 2009, the Company’s cash position has reduced to $742,000, which includes $850,000 borrowed on our bank credit line. There is also the risk that cash held by our foreign subsidiaries will not be readily available for use in our U.S. operations as the transfer of funds is sometimes delayed due to various foreign government restrictions. Accordingly, we may in the future be required to seek new sources of financing or future accommodations from our existing lender or other financial institutions, or we may seek equity infusions from private investors. We may also be required to further reduce operating costs in order to meet our obligations. In February 2009, December 2008, 2007 and 2006 we initiated cost reduction efforts designed to reduce our operating costs and reduce our need for additional capital. In the future, if we are unsuccessful with increasing revenues and operating cash flow, we may be required to further reduce our operating costs. We believe we can successfully reduce the Company’s cost structure in the event of a shortage of capital; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce operating costs quickly enough or in amounts sufficient to avoid the need to find additional sources of financing. No assurance can be given that management’s initiatives to generate profitable operations will be successful or that any additional necessary sources of financing, lender accommodations or equity infusions will be available. As a result, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely impacted. AXS-One depends upon its proprietary technology and if we were unable to protect our technology, our competitive position would be adversely affected. We believe that our success greatly depends on our proprietary software and technology. We rely primarily on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and contractual 14 Table of Contents agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy all or part of our products or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We make our source code available to certain of our customers and partners, which may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. Additionally, the laws of some countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States of America. We cannot assure anyone that the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Although we believe that the trademarks and service marks we use are distinct, there can be no assurance that we will be able to register or protect such trademarks and service marks. Our products may become subject to infringement claims. We believe that none of our products, trademarks, or service marks, technologies or other proprietary rights infringe upon the proprietary rights of any third parties. However, as the number of software products in our industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, we believe that software developers like us may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Additionally, the market in which we compete has seen an increase in the number of “business method” patents issued, and infringement claims asserted, based on these issued patents. Any claims asserted, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming and expensive to defend, could cause delays in shipping our products or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements that may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Any of these factors would significantly impact our operating results and financial conditions or materially disrupt the conduct of our business. We cannot assure anyone that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our current or future products or services. A security breach could harm our business. Our products provide security features designed to protect its users’ data from being retrieved or modified without being authorized. While AXS-One continues to review and enhance the security features in its products, we can make no assurances concerning the successful implementation of security features and their effectiveness within a customer’s operating environment. If an actual security breach were to occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. A variety of risks associated with AXS-One’s international operations could adversely affect our business. Risks inherent in international revenue include the impact of longer payment cycles, greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, most of our international license fees and services revenues are denominated in foreign currencies which can have an impact on our consolidated revenues as exchange rates fluctuate. Currently, we do not hedge against foreign currency exchange risks but in the future we may commence hedging against specific foreign currency transaction risks. We may be unable to hedge all of our exchange rate exposure economically and exchange rate fluctuations may have a negative effect on our ability to meet our obligations. With respect to our international sales that are U.S. dollar denominated, decreases in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could make our products less price competitive. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international revenue. We believe that our continued growth and future profitability will require AXS-One to expand its sales in international markets, which require significant management attention and financial resources. As a result, we expect that revenues from customers outside the United States will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total revenues in the future. We cannot assure anyone, however, that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and services. 15 Table of Contents In 2008 and 2007 the Company’s total revenues generated by the Company’s foreign offices were as follows: Percentage of Year Amount Total Revenues 2008 $3.7 million 27.2% 2007 $5.0 million 41.7% AXS-One is subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries. These risks generally include: • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements, • costs of localizing products for foreign countries, • lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign markets, • longer accounts receivable payment cycles, • difficulties managing international operations, • potentially adverse tax consequences, • restrictions on repatriation of earnings, • loss of key personnel, • reduced legal protection of our intellectual property, and • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. Any of these factors, or others, could adversely affect our future international revenues and, consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on certain third-party relationships. Our business, product development, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted if we fail to maintain our existing relationships or establish new relationships, in the future, with third parties because of diverging interests, one or more of these third parties is acquired, or for any other reason, whether or not within our control. We rely on third-party relationships with a number of consultants, systems integrators and software vendors to: • enhance our product development, • market and sell our products, • implement our software products, and • support our customers. These relationships assist our product development process and assist us in marketing, servicing and implementing our products. A number of these relationships are not memorialized in formal written agreements. Our products also incorporate software that we license from third parties. These licenses expire from time to time and generally, we do not have access to the source code for the software that a third party will license to us. Certain of these third parties are small companies without extensive financial resources. If any of these companies terminate relationships with us, cease doing business or stop supporting their products, we may be forced to expend a significant amount of time and development resources to try to replace the licensed software. We may also find that replacement is not possible or commercially feasible. If that were to occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 16 Table of Contents We rely on strategic partners and resellers for a large portion of our new license revenue. Our sales strategy over the past several years has included strategic partners such as Sun Microsystems and other resellers around the world. The loss of a strategic partner or the inability to maintain productive reseller relationships could have a significant negative effect on our ability to generate new license and related service revenue. Our largest strategic partner is responsible for 8.8% of our license revenue in 2008 and 22.5% of license revenue in 2007. AXS-One’s executive officers, directors and affiliates own a significant amount of its common stock. This stock ownership may prevent or discourage tender offers for our common stock unless these significant stockholders approve the terms of any such offers. As of February 18, 2009, AXS-One’s executive officers, directors and affiliates together beneficially own approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval including: • electing directors, and • mergers, consolidations, and sale of all or substantially all of our assets. AXS-One relies on its key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining the skilled employees it needs to operate successfully. AXS-One’s future success will depend, in large part, on the continued service of its key executives and, if we fail to attract and maintain those executives, the quality of our products, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. We cannot provide assurances that turnover of our key executives will not continue, and that such turnover would not adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also believe that our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and particularly, technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for qualified employees in our industry is intense. AXS-One has from time to time in the past experienced, and expects to continue experiencing, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. We cannot assure anyone that we will be able to retain our employees or attract or retain highly qualified employees to develop, market, service and support our products and conduct our operations. AXS-One’s common stock trading price may be volatile for reasons over which it may have little or no control. AXS-One’s common stock trading price has, from time to time, experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations, often responding to, among other factors: • quarterly variations in our operating results, • the gain or loss of significant contracts, • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, • announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors, • announcements of sales to new customers • general conditions in the software and computer industries, • general economic and market conditions and • limited trading volume of our common stock. Additionally, the stock market, in general, frequently experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations. In particular, the market prices of the securities of companies such as ours have been 17 Table of Contents especially volatile recently, and often these fluctuations have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by these market fluctuations. Also, the low market price of our common stock may make it prohibitive to obtain additional equity funding. AXS-One has never paid or declared dividends and does not expect to in the foreseeable future. AXS-One has never paid or declared any cash dividends and we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend that future earnings, if any, be retained for business use. Changes in laws and regulations that affect the governance of public companies have increased our operating expenses and will continue to do so. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies included in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have imposed new duties on us and on our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firm. In order to comply with these new rules, we hired a consulting advisory firm to assist us in the process and we also expect to use additional services of our outside legal counsel, both of which will increase our operating expenses. In particular, we have incurred additional administrative expenses as we implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on, and our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to attest to, our internal controls. Management time associated with these compliance efforts necessarily reduces time available for other operating activities, which could adversely affect operating results. If we are unable to achieve full and timely compliance with these regulatory requirements, we could be required to incur additional costs, expend additional management time on remedial efforts and make related public disclosures that could adversely affect our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 