ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Making or continuing an investment in securities, including the Company’s Common Stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. We may be vulnerable to certain sectors of the economy A portion of the loan portfolio is secured by real estate. If the economy deteriorated and depressed real estate values beyond a certain point, that collateral value of the portfolio and the revenue stream from those loans could come under stress and possibly require additional loan loss accruals. Our ability to dispose of foreclosed real estate at prices above the respective carrying values could also be impinged, causing additional losses. 14 Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry in which we operate The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years, causing volatility and disruption to reach unprecedented levels. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence and widespread reduction of business activity generally. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institution industry. Also, the economic downturn could exacerbate our exposure to credit risk, particularly in our real estate markets, as lower home prices and increased foreclosures may result in higher charge-offs and delinquencies. General economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated may adversely affect our customers’ ability to meet their obligations A sudden or severe downturn in the economy in the geographic markets we serve in the state of Mississippi may affect the ability of our customers to meet loan payments obligations on a timely basis. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate, and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing such loans. Changes resulting in adverse economic conditions of our market areas could negatively impact the financial results of the Company’s banking operations and its profitability. Additionally, adverse economic changes may cause customers to withdraw deposit balances, thereby causing a strain on our liquidity. We are subject to a risk of rapid and significant changes in market interest rates Our assets and liabilities are primarily monetary in nature, and as a result we are subject to significant risks tied to changes in interest rates. Our ability to operate profitably is largely dependent upon net interest income. Unexpected movement in interest rates markedly changing the slope of the current yield curve could cause net interest margins to decrease, subsequently decreasing net interest income. In addition, such changes could adversely affect the valuation of our assets and liabilities. At present the Company’s one-year interest rate sensitivity position is slightly asset sensitive, but a gradual increase in interest rates during the next twelve months should not have a significant impact on net interest income during that period. However, as with most financial institutions, the Company’s results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and the Company’s ability to manage this risk. The difference between interest rates charged on interest-earning assets and interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in relationships between interest rate indices, and/or changes in the relationships between long-term and short-term market interest rates. A change in this difference might result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in the Company’s interest rate spread. Certain changes in interest rates, inflation, or the financial markets could affect demand for our products and our ability to deliver products efficiently Loan originations, and potentially loan revenues, could be adversely impacted by sharply rising interest rates. Conversely, sharply falling rates could increase prepayments within our securities portfolio lowering interest earnings from those investments. An unanticipated increase in inflation could cause operating costs related to salaries and benefits, technology, and supplies to increase at a faster pace than revenues. 15 The fair market value of the securities portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect profitability The results of operations of the Company are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and the current military operations in the Middle East, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or the Company’s business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the United States government and other governments in responding to such terrorist attacks or the military operations in the Middle East may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects. Natural disasters could affect our ability to operate Our market areas are susceptible to natural disasters such as hurricanes. Natural disasters can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. The Company cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes will affect operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing the loans and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Greater loan losses than expected may adversely affect our earnings The Company as lender is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Credit risk with respect to its real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporations and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Credit risk with respect to its commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for estimated loan losses based on a number of factors. The Company believes that its current allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. We may have to increase the allowance in the future in response to the request of one of its primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of the loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. The Company may need to rely on the financial markets to provide needed capital The First Bancshares’ Common Stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ stock market. Although the Company anticipates that its capital resources will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet its capital requirements, at times we may depend on the liquidity of the NASDAQ stock market to raise equity capital. If the market should fail to operate, or if conditions in the capital markets are adverse, First Bancshares may be constrained in raising capital. Should these risks materialize, the ability to further expand its operations through internal growth may be limited. 16 We are subject to regulation by various Federal and State entities The Company is subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the OCC. New regulations issued by these agencies may adversely affect First Bancshares’ ability to carry on its business activities. First Bancshares is subject to various Federal and state laws and certain changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect operations. The Company is also subject to the accounting rules and regulations of the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect the reported financial statements or results of operations of First Bancshares and may also require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement. Any of these laws or regulations may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect the Company. We engage in acquisitions of other businesses from time to time On occasion, the Company will engage in acquisitions of other businesses. Acquisitions may result in customer and employee turnover, thus increasing the cost of operating the new businesses. The acquired companies may also have legal contingencies, beyond those that First Bancshares is aware of, that could result in unexpected costs. We are subject to industry competition which may have an impact upon its success The profitability of the Company depends on its ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive financial services environment. Certain competitors are larger and may have more resources than we do. We face competition in our regional market areas from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of the nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern the Company or the Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Another competitive factor is that the financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology competitively to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in operations. Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution of shareholders’ ownership The Company may determine from time to time to issue additional securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, the Company may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. Such issuances of Company securities will dilute the ownership interests of the Company’s shareholders. Anti-takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value Certain provisions of state and federal law and the Company’s articles of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of the Company. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity, or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including The First Bancshares’ shares. Banking agencies review the acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The banking agencies have 60 days to act on the notice, and take into account several factors, including the resources of the acquiror and the antitrust effects of the acquisition. There also are Mississippi statutory provisions and provisions in the Company’s articles of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in the Company’s articles of incorporation could result in the Company being less attractive to a potential acquiror. 17 Securities issued by the Company, including the Company’s Common Stock, are not FDIC insured Securities issued by the Company, including the Company’s Common Stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the Deposit Insurance Fund, or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA. The legislation was the result of a proposal by the Treasury in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury was given the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. In 2008, the Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program, which was followed by the Community Development Capital Initiative in 2010. In 2008, the FDIC adopted a Final rule with respect to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program pursuant to which the FDIC guaranteed certain “newly-issued unsecured debt” of banks and certain holding companies and also temporarily guaranteed, on an unlimited basis, noninterest-bearing bank transaction accounts; the unlimited guarantee of noninterest-bearing transaction accounts has now been extended through 2012 by the Dodd-Frank Act. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the ARRA. The purposes of the legislation are to preserve and create jobs, to assist those most impacted by the recession, to provide investments to increase economic efficiency in health services, to invest in transportation, environmental protection and other infrastructure, and to stabilize local and state governments. Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize our economy and financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the Capital Purchase Program, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions or the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Concern by customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits and changes in the mix of funding sources available to the Company With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured and some may seek deposit products or other bank savings and investment products that are collateralized. Decreases in deposits and changes in the mix of funding sources may adversely affect the Company’s funding costs and net income. Evaluation of investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective determinations and could materially impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties, and is intended to determine whether declines in the fair value of investment should be recognized in current period earnings. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuers’ financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or credit spreads and the expected recovery period. Estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments is based upon the Company’s quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. 18 Additionally, the Company’s management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its reasonable judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Impairments to the carrying value of our investment securities may need to be taken in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company may be required to pay additional insurance premiums to the FDIC, which could negatively impact earnings Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the limit on FDIC coverage has been permanently increased to $250,000. These developments have caused the premiums assessed to the Company by the FDIC to increase. Further, depending upon any future losses that the FDIC insurance fund may suffer, there can be no assurance that there will not be additional premium increases in order to replenish the fund. The FDIC may need to set a higher base rate schedule or impose special assessments due to future financial institution failures and updated failure and loss projections. Potentially higher FDIC assessment rates than those currently projected could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company participates in the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program · The Company received $5,000,000 in funding under the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) in exchange for preferred stock and common stock warrants during 2009, which funding was refinanced into lower-cost Community Development Capital Initiative (“CDCI”) funding on September 29, 2010. In addition, on September 29, 2010, the Company also accepted $12,123,000 in additional CDCI funding, for a total of $17,123,000 in CDCI funding. Participation in this program constrains the Company’s ability to raise dividends and also places certain constraints on executive compensation arrangements. The increased funding provides assurance that the Company can maintain its minimum regulatory capital ratios in the face of future large real estate-related losses. The Company will have to repay these funds, possibly by raising capital within the next seven to eight years to keep its dividend costs from increasing to 9% per annum. · Both the CPP and the CDCI are part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). The rules that govern the TARP include restrictions on certain compensation to executive officers and a number of others in the Company. Among other things, these rules include a prohibition on golden parachute payments, a prohibition on providing tax gross-ups, a bonus claw-back provision, and a prohibition on paying any bonus payment to the Company’s most highly compensated employees. It is possible that compensation restrictions imposed on TARP participants could impede our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers. · Our participation in the TARP limits our annual dividend payments to no more than $.15 per share. Our ability to repurchase our common stock would also be restricted in the event that we failed to make our dividend payments. · Since the TARP was part of legislation that has the reputation of being passed as a bailout of the financial industry, participation in the program could also create some reputational risk. This reputation of the program could impede the Company’s ability to attract business in competition with other financial institutions that did not participate. This reputational risk could also impede the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 