1A. RISK FACTORS. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OUR INABILITY TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH MAY OVEREXTEND OUR MANAGEMENT AND OTHER RESOURCES, CAUSING INEFFICIENCIES, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We intend to continue to expand our operations aggressively. We may be unable to: o manage effectively the expansion of our operations; o implement and develop our systems, procedures or controls; o adequately support our operations; o achieve and manage the currently projected installations of bulk CO2 systems; or o maintain our superior level of customer service. 8 If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness could be seriously harmed. The growth in the size and scale of our business has placed, and we expect it will continue to place, significant demands on our personnel and operating systems. Any additional expansion may further strain management and other resources. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will depend on our ability to: o improve our operating systems; o expand, train and mange our employee base; and o develop additional service capacity. OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS ARE UNCERTAIN DESPITE THE GROWTH RATE IN OUR REVENUES AND STRONG BACKLOG. You should not consider growth rates in our revenues to be indicative of growth rates in our operating results. In addition, you should not consider prior growth rates in our revenues to be indicative of future growth rates in our revenues. The timing and amount of future revenues will depend almost entirely on our ability to obtain agreements with new customers to install bulk CO2 systems and use our services, and on our ability to increase the density of our customer base for our existing service locations in order to allow for increased absorption of our fixed costs. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including: o the level of product and price competition; o our ability to manage growth; o our ability to hire additional employees; and o our ability to control costs. As of June 30, 2006, we had a signed contractual backlog of approximately 5,700 new customer accounts awaiting activation. However, this backlog is not necessarily indicative of future growth rates in our operating results, which will depend in part on our ability to implement new customer agreements. Additionally, these agreements may be subject to modification or termination prior to implementation or may not be implemented for a significant period of time due to customers' prior contractual commitments. WE LACK PRODUCT DIVERSITY, AND OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON CONTINUED MARKET ACCEPTANCE BY THE FOUNTAIN BEVERAGE MARKET OF OUR BULK CO2 SYSTEMS AND CONSUMER PREFERENCE FOR CARBONATED BEVERAGES. We depend on continued market acceptance of our bulk CO2 systems by the fountain beverage market, which accounts for substantially all of our revenues. Unlike many of our competitors for whom bulk CO2 is a secondary business, we have no material lines of business other than the leasing of bulk CO2 systems and the sale of bulk CO2. We currently do not anticipate diversifying into other product or service lines. Although conversion from high pressure cylinders to bulk CO2 systems represents a continued opportunity for growth in the bulk CO2 market, total demand for CO2 is limited because the fountain beverage market is mature. Our ability to grow is dependent upon the success of our marketing efforts to acquire new customers and their acceptance of bulk CO2 systems as a replacement for high pressure cylinders. While the fountain beverage market to date has been receptive to bulk CO2 systems, we cannot be certain that the operating results of our installed base of bulk CO2 systems will continue to be favorable or that past results will be indicative of future market acceptance of our services. In addition, any recession experienced by the fountain beverage market or any significant shift in consumer preferences away from carbonated beverages to other types of beverages would result in a loss of revenues, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS AND OUR OBLIGATION TO SERVICE THAT INDEBTEDNESS COULD DIVERT FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AND LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FUNDING TO EXPAND OUR BUSINESS. As of June 30, 2006, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $35.5 million under our revolving credit facility. 9 If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, we will have to: o reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; o sell assets; o restructure or refinance our indebtedness; or o seek additional equity capital. We are uncertain whether any of these strategies can be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all, particularly in light of our indebtedness. In addition, the extent to which we continue to have indebtedness could have significant consequences, including: o our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes may be materially limited or impaired; o a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may need to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and therefore may not be available to finance our business; and o our high degree of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures or reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our revolving credit agreement requires that we comply with financial and business covenants. If we fail to maintain these covenants, our lender could declare us in default and demand repayment of our indebtedness if this default were not cured or waived. At various times in the past, we have been unable to meet certain covenants and have had to obtain waivers or modifications of terms from our lenders. In addition, the conditions that the revolving credit facility places on the amount of debt we can incur, our level of liquidity and our cash flows may have a negative effect on our ability to grow our business. IMPLEMENTING OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY INVOLVES RISK AND OUR FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY IMPLEMENT THIS STRATEGY COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. One of our key strategies is to grow our business by selectively pursuing acquisitions of bulk CO2 customer accounts. Since 1995, we have acquired more than 30,000 bulk CO2 customer accounts, and we are continuing to actively pursue additional customer account acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions involve risks, including those relating to: o identification of appropriate acquisition candidates or negotiation of acquisitions on favorable terms and valuations; o integration of acquired bulk CO2 customer accounts; o implementation of proper business and accounting controls; o ability to obtain financing, on favorable terms or at all; o diversion of management attention; o retention of bulk CO2 customers; o maintaining our superior level of customer service as we continue to grow; and o unexpected costs, expenses and liabilities. Our growth strategy may affect short-term cash flow and net income as we expend funds, increase indebtedness and incur additional expenses in connection with pursuing acquisitions of bulk CO2 customer accounts. We experienced some of the risk described above following prior acquisitions of bulk CO2 customer accounts. As a result, we were unable to manage our growth effectively and our customer service levels declined. As a result, our business suffered. If we are not able to identify or acquire bulk CO2 customer accounts consistent with our growth strategy or if we fail to integrate any acquired bulk CO2 customer accounts into our operations successfully, we may not achieve anticipated increases in revenue, costs savings and economies of scale, and our operating results may be adversely affected. 10 THE FOUNTAIN BEVERAGE CARBONATION MARKET IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND OUR INABILITY TO RESPOND TO VARIOUS COMPETITIVE FACTORS MAY RESULT IN A LOSS OF CURRENT CUSTOMERS AND A FAILURE TO ATTRACT NEW CUSTOMERS. The fountain beverage carbonation market is highly competitive. We primarily compete on a regional and local basis with several direct competitors. We cannot be certain that these competitors will not substantially increase their installed base of bulk CO2 systems and expand their service nationwide, provide customer service superior to ours or reduce the price of their services below our prices. As there are no major barriers to entry with respect to the delivery of bulk CO2 on a local or regional basis, we also face the risk of a well-capitalized competitor's entry into our existing or future local or regional markets. In addition, we compete with numerous distributors of bulk and high pressure CO2, including; o industrial gas and welding supply companies; o specialty gas companies; o restaurant and grocery supply companies; and o fountain supply companies. These suppliers vary widely in size. Some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical or marketing resources than we do. Our competitors might succeed in developing technologies, products or services that are superior, less costly or more widely used than those that we have or are developing or that would render our technologies or products obsolete or uncompetitive. In addition, competitors may have an advantage over us with customers who prefer dealing with one company that can supply bulk CO2 as well as fountain syrup. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. WE DEPEND ON THE CONTINUED CONTRIBUTIONS OF OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND OTHER KEY MANAGEMENT, EACH OF WHOM WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO REPLACE. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management personnel. We face competition for management from other companies and organizations. Therefore, we may not be able to retain our existing management personnel or fill new management positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at our existing compensation levels. We have entered into executive employment agreements with key members of senior management. The employment agreements with our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer and chief customer officer expire in June 2007, October 2008, May 2007 and June 2009, respectively. We do not have "key-person" insurance on the lives of any of our key officers or management personnel to mitigate the impact to our company that the loss of any of them would cause. Specifically, the loss of any of our executive officers would disrupt our operations and divert the time and attention of our remaining officers. Additionally, failure to attract and retain highly qualified management personnel would damage our business prospects. AS WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS, WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY FINDING SUITABLE REPLACEMENTS TO MEET OUR NEEDS IF THESE SUPPLIERS CEASE DOING BUSINESS WITH US. We do not conduct manufacturing operations and depend, and will continue to depend, on outside parties for the manufacture of bulk CO2 systems and components. We intend to significantly expand our installed base of bulk CO2 systems. Our expansion may be limited by the manufacturing capacity of our third-party manufacturers. Manufacturers may not be able to meet our manufacturing needs in a satisfactory and timely manner. If there is an unanticipated increase in demand for bulk CO2 systems, we may be unable to meet such demand due to manufacturing constraints. We purchase bulk CO2 systems from Chart Industries, Inc. and Harsco Corporation, the two major manufacturers of bulk CO2 systems. Should either manufacturer cease manufacturing bulk CO2 systems, we would be required to locate additional suppliers. We may be unable to locate alternate manufacturers on a timely basis or negotiate the purchase of bulk CO2 systems on favorable terms. A delay in the supply of bulk CO2 systems could cause potential customers to delay their decision to purchase our services or to choose not to purchase our services. This would result in delays in or loss of future revenues. In addition, we purchase CO2 for resale to our customers. In May 1997, we entered into an exclusive bulk CO2 requirements contract with The BOC Group, Inc. In the event that BOC is unable to fulfill our requirements, we would have to locate additional suppliers. A delay in locating additional suppliers or our inability to locate additional suppliers would result in loss of revenues, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. 11 WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE PRICING AND AVAILABILITY OF CO2 AND SHORTAGES OR INCREASES IN THE PRICE OF CO2 OR OTHER RAW MATERIALS COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS OF GOODS SOLD, REDUCE OUR PROFITS AND MARGINS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Our principal raw material is CO2, which is a commodity product. We purchase our CO2 for resale from The BOC Group, Inc. under an exclusive requirements contract expiring in 2012 which provides for annual adjustments in the purchase price for bulk CO2 based upon changes in the Producer Price Index for Chemical and Allied Products or increases in the price of bulk CO2 purchased by BOC's large, multi-location beverage customers in the United States, whichever is less. Steel is used in the manufacture of our bulk CO2 tanks. We purchase our tanks from manufacturers under agreements, the terms of which are renegotiated on an annual basis. Hot rolled steel prices increased significantly during fiscal 2006. Future increases in steel prices may result in higher prices for the CO2 tanks we must purchase. Our business also depends on our ability to deliver CO2 to our customers through specialized CO2 delivery vehicles. There have been significant increases in fuel costs in recent years. Continued high fuel costs or further increases and our inability to pass on increases to our customers could reduce our profits and margins. Increases in the prices of CO2, bulk CO2 tanks and fuel, including increases that may occur as a result of shortages, duties or other restrictions, could increase our cost of sales and reduce profits and margins. We cannot assure you that shortages or increases in the prices of our raw materials or fuel will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE DUE TO SEASONALITY BECAUSE CONSUMERS TEND TO DRINK FEWER QUANTITIES OF CARBONATED BEVERAGES DURING THE WINTER MONTHS. Demand for CO2 in times of cold or inclement weather is lower than at other times. Based on historical data and expected trends, we anticipate that revenues from the delivery of CO2 will be highest in our first quarter and lowest in our third quarter. As a result, we expect our quarterly results of operations to continue to experience variability from quarter to quarter in the future. OUR OPERATING RESULTS ARE AFFECTED BY RISING INTEREST RATES SINCE MORE OF OUR CASH FLOW WILL BE NEEDED TO SERVICE OUR INDEBTEDNESS. The interest rate on our revolving credit facility fluctuates with market interest rates, resulting in greater interest costs in times of rising interest rates. Consequently, our earnings, cash flows and profitability are sensitive to changes in interest rates. High interest rates could also affect our ability to service our indebtedness. To the extent that we cannot generate sufficient cash flows to make interest payments on time, our lender could declare us in default and demand repayment of our indebtedness, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. OUR INSURANCE POLICIES MAY NOT COVER ALL OPERATING RISKS, AND A CASUALTY LOSS BEYOND OUR COVERAGE COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. Our operations are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing and transporting CO2. CO2 is classified as a hazardous material and can cause serious injuries such as frostbite and asphyxiation that may result in, and have in the past resulted in, serious injury or death to our employees and other persons. We maintain insurance policies in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. However, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business or that current levels of insurance will be maintained or available at economical prices. If a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds and our financial condition and ability to service our indebtedness could be seriously harmed. OUR BUSINESS AND FACILITIES ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH MAY INCREASE OUR COST OF DOING BUSINESS. IN ADDITION, FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REGULATIONS MAY SUBJECT US TO FINES, PENALTIES AND/OR INJUNCTIONS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our business and facilities are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations adopted for the use, storage and handling of CO2, the protection of the environment, the health and safety of our employees and users of our products and services. Among these environmental laws are rules by which 12 a current or previous lessee may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property. In addition, these laws typically impose liability regardless of whether the lessee knew, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned, leased or operated by them. As we lease a number of service locations that may store, handle or arrange for the disposal of various hazardous materials, we may incur costs for investigation, removal and remediation, as well as capital costs, associated with compliance with environmental laws. Although environmental costs have not been material in the past, we cannot be certain that these matters, or any similar liabilities that arise in the future, will not exceed our resources, nor can we completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. The transportation of bulk CO2 is also subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies, including the U.S. Department of Transportation. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, and we are subject to regulatory and legislative changes that can affect the economics of our industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for and the cost of providing services. A significant increase in the cost of our operations resulting from changing governmental regulations could adversely affect our profitability. WE MAY BE LIMITED IN OUR ABILITY TO OFFSET FUTURE TAXABLE INCOME WITH OUR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARDS. We have net operating loss carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes. If we undergo an ownership change in the future as described in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to use those net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be limited. This may have the effect of reducing our after-tax cash flow in future years. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE AND MAY DECLINE REGARDLESS OF OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE. Our common stock price has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering in December 1995. Our common stock closing sales price reached a 52-week high of $32.17 on January 27, 2006. There can be no assurance that the market price for our common stock will remain at its current level and a decrease in the market price could result in substantial loses for investors. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by the following factors: o announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; o trends and fluctuations in the use of bulk CO2 systems; o timing of bulk CO2 systems installations relative to financial reporting periods; o release of securities analysts' reports; o operating results below expectations; o changes in, or our failure to meet, financial estimates by securities analysts; o our business prospects as perceived by others; o market reaction to any acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments or alliances announced by us or our competitors; o industry developments; o market acceptance of bulk CO2 systems; o decrease in the safety record in the use of bulk CO2 systems; o economic and other external factors; and o period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. The volatility in our share price as a result of any of the factors described above, many of which are beyond our control, could result in substantial or total losses for investors. The securities markets have also experienced significant price and volume fluctuations from time to time that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, because the daily trading volume in our common stock has from time to time been light, investors may not be able to sell our common stock on favorable terms or in the volume and at the times desired. 13 WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY DIVIDENDS FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. WE MAY ISSUE PREFERRED STOCK WHICH COULD LIMIT INVESTORS' ABILITY TO ACQUIRE OUR COMMON STOCK AND AFFECT OUR MARKET PRICE. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our articles of incorporation currently authorize 5,000 shares of Series A 8% cumulative convertible preferred stock, 2,500 shares on Series B 8% cumulative convertible preferred stock and 200,000 shares of Series C participating preferred stock. No shares of preferred stock are currently issued and outstanding. If we designate or issue a series of preferred stock, it will create additional securities that will have dividend and liquidation preferences over the common shares. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current shareholders' interest. Without any further vote or action on the part of the shareholders, our board of directors will have the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock. Although issuing preferred stock could provide us with flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, the issuance may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, which could limit the price investors are willing to pay for our common stock. OUR CHARTER'S ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AND FLORIDA LAW COULD RESTRICT AN INVESTOR'S ABILITY TO PURCHASE OUR COMMON STOCK AT A FAVORABLE PRICE AND AFFECT OUR MARKET VALUE. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan that may prevent a change in control or sale of us in a manner or on terms not approved by the board of directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide for a classified board of directors. This structure may significantly extend the time required to effect a change in control of the board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover bids for us. It could take at least two annual meetings for even a majority of shareholders to make a change in control of the board of directors because only a minority of the directors is scheduled to be elected at each meeting. Without the ability to easily obtain immediate control of the board of directors, a takeover bidder may not be able to take action to remove other impediments to acquiring us. We are also subject to several anti-takeover provisions that apply to public corporations organized under Florida law. These provisions generally require that certain transactions between a corporation and a holder of more than 10% of its outstanding voting securities must be approved by a majority of disinterested directors or the holders of two-thirds of the voting shares not beneficially owned by an "interested shareholder." Additionally, "control shares" (shares acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds) acquired in specified control share acquisitions have voting rights only to the extent conferred by resolution approved by shareholders, excluding holders of shares defined as "interested shares." A Florida corporation may opt out of the Florida anti-takeover laws if its articles of incorporation or, depending on the provision in question, its bylaws so provide. We have not opted out of the provisions of the anti-takeover laws. Consequently, these laws could prohibit or delay a merger or other takeover or change in control and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us. FUTURE SALES OF SHARES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE SINCE ANY INCREASE IN THE AMOUNT OF OUTSTANDING SHARES MAY HAVE A DILUTIVE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales could be due to shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. At June 30, 2006, we had granted options to purchase an aggregate of 2,351,940 shares of common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $19.52 per share. We cannot assure you that substantial sales of our common stock resulting from the exercise of stock options will not dilute our common stock or lower our share price. 14 COMPLIANCE WITH CHANGING REGULATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE MAY RESULT IN ADDITIONAL EXPENSES. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Market rules, will require an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to continue to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, which may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. SECURITIES ANALYSTS MAY NOT CONTINUE OR INITIATE COVERAGE OF OUR COMMON STOCK OR MAY ISSUE NEGATIVE REPORTS, AND THIS MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR COMMON STOCK'S MARKET PRICE. There is no assurance that securities analysts will continue to publish research reports on us. If securities analysts do not, this lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Recently adopted rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and a global settlement reached between the SEC, other regulatory agencies and a number of investment banks in April 2003, has led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are now required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may be difficult for companies with smaller market capitalizations, including us, to attract independent financial analysts who will cover our common stock, which could have a negative effect on our market price. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 