RISK FACTORS AND TRENDS AFFECTING DIEDRICH COFFEE AND ITS BUSINESS Historical losses from continuing operations may continue and, as a result, the price of our common stock may be negatively affected. For the past five fiscal years, we had net income (loss) from continuing operations of $(3,315,000) for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2005, $(1,647,000) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, $(2,504,000) for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2003, $272,000 for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2002 and $(4,400,000) for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2001. We could suffer losses in the future, which may negatively affect our stock price. If we are not able to grow our business, the results of our operations and our financial condition may be adversely impacted. As of June 29, 2005, we operated 51 Diedrich Coffee and Coffee People retail locations, which we managed on a day-to-day basis, and had seven franchised Diedrich Coffee coffeehouse locations. We also had 143 Gloria Jean’s retail locations, of which 132 were franchised. To grow, we must: • attract single and multi-store franchisees for our Gloria Jean’s brand in the United States; • continue to upgrade Gloria Jean’s products and programs; • expand Diedrich Coffee and Gloria Jean’s wholesale sales; • attract franchise area developers for Diedrich Coffee in the United States and internationally after our two-year international non-compete restriction expires; 12 Table of Contents • obtain (or have our franchise area developers obtain) suitable sites at acceptable costs in highly competitive real estate markets; • hire, train and retain qualified personnel; • integrate newly franchised or corporate locations into existing product distribution; • continue to upgrade inventory control, marketing and information systems; and • impose and maintain strict quality control from green coffee acquisition to the fresh cup of brewed coffee in a customer’s hand. Implementation of our growth strategy may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on management, operational and financial resources, and accounting systems. Future inability to grow our business resulting from, among other things, failing to execute any of the above factors may adversely affect the results of our operations and our financial condition. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to our franchisees, and the terms of our franchise agreements require our franchisees to maintain certain minimum operating standards; however, the quality of franchised operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. For example, franchisees may not successfully operate coffeehouses in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers or other personnel. In other instances, franchisees may operate their units in conformity with our operating standards and specifications, but may fail to meet their financial obligations to us under a franchise agreement or a sublease for a location, or to vendors, lenders or other creditors. While we have certain contractual remedies in such instances of default, enforcing our remedies typically requires litigation, and therefore our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees, may suffer even if such litigation is successfully concluded. If a significant number of franchisees were to be in default simultaneously, a larger number of franchise units could be terminated in a given time period than we would be able to re-franchise, or absorb into our company operated unit base, and system-wide sales could significantly decline. If this were to occur, we might also be unable to meet our obligations to mall landlords for early termination of the 80 master leases for which we are currently liable. Our growth through franchise area development may not occur as rapidly as we currently anticipate. Our ability to recruit, retain and contract with qualified franchise area developers has become, and will continue to be, increasingly important to our operations as we expand. Our franchisees are dependent upon the availability of adequate sources of financing on acceptable terms in order to meet their development obligations, and the credit markets for such franchise financing have historically been somewhat volatile. Prospective franchise lenders have historically been cautious in their approach to financing smaller or newer, less established retail brands vis-à-vis larger and more established franchised systems. Such financing may not be available to our franchised area developers, or only available upon disadvantageous terms. Our franchise development strategy may not enhance our results of operations. Failure to execute on our strategy to grow through franchise area development would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our operating results will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as the result of a number of factors, including: • comparable store sales results; • the number, timing, mix and cost of coffeehouse and mall coffee store openings, franchises, acquisitions or closings; • the level of competition from existing or new competitors in the specialty coffee industry; • labor costs for our hourly and management personnel, including increases in federal or state minimum wage requirements; • changes in consumer preferences; and • fluctuations in prices of unroasted coffee. From time to time in the future, our operating results may fall below the expectations of investors and public market securities analysts. Quarterly fluctuations, for any reason, could cause our stock price to decline. Also, our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The November—December holiday season generally experiences the highest sales. In contrast, hot weather tends to depress sales of hot coffee and espresso drinks, especially unseasonably warm weather. Consequently, we will continue to experience significant fluctuations in quarterly results. In addition, if we were to open additional company owned coffeehouses in the future, we would incur significant pre-opening expenses, and the new coffeehouses would likely experience an initial period of operating losses. As a result, the opening of a significant number of company owned coffeehouses in a single period would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical or future operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and such comparisons should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Because we have only one roasting facility, a significant interruption in the operation of this facility could potentially disrupt our operations. We have only one coffee roasting and distribution facility. A significant interruption in the operation of this facility, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. Future changes in minimum wage requirements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A number of our employees are subject to minimum wage requirements. Many of our employees work in retail locations located in California and Oregon, and receive salaries equal to those states’ minimum wage laws, which salaries currently exceed the federal minimum wage. There can be no assurance that further increases will not be implemented in these or other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pass additional increases in labor costs through to our customers in the form of price adjustments and, accordingly, such minimum wage increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 14 Table of Contents We or our franchisees may not be able to renew leases or control rent increases at our retail locations. All of our 62 company operated coffeehouses are presently on leased premises. Gloria Jean’s stores are generally leased by an indirect subsidiary of Coffee People, although in most cases, the franchisees pay their rent directly to their landlord. Upon the expiration of some of these leases, there is no automatic renewal or option to renew. Consequently, these leases may not be renewed. If they are renewed, rents may increase substantially. Either of these events could adversely affect us. Other leases are subject to renewal at fair market value, which could involve substantial rent increases, or are subject to renewal with scheduled rent increases, which could result in rents being above fair market value. In addition, at the time of lease renewal, significant remodeling is typically required. It is possible that the Company may not have available capital to perform such remodeling. In addition, franchisees may not renew their franchises at the expiration of the coffeehouse lease term. On average 12 franchise unit lease terms expire annually. Franchisees may choose not to renew their franchises, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive and we may not have the resources to compete effectively. With low barriers to entry, competition in our industry is expected to increase from national and regional chains, franchise operators and local specialty coffee stores. Our whole bean coffees compete directly against specialty coffees sold at specialty retailers, variety and discount stores, and a growing number of specialty coffee stores. Many specialty coffee companies, including Starbucks, Seattle’s Best Coffee, Bucks County, Brothers Gourmet Coffees and Green Mountain Coffee Roasters sell whole bean coffees through these channels. In our sale of coffee beverages and espresso drinks, we compete directly against all other specialty grade coffee roasters, coffeehouses, espresso/coffee bars and mall coffee stores, as well as against restaurant and beverage outlets that serve coffee, and a growing number of espresso stands, carts, and stores. Our competition at this level includes a growing number of specialty coffee retailers, including Starbucks, Barnie’s, Coffee Beanery Ltd., Caribou Coffee, Peet’s Coffee, Tully’s Coffee and many others. The attractiveness of the gourmet specialty coffeehouse market may draw additional competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources than we have. In addition, we compete to draw customers of standard or commercial coffee, and consumers of substitute coffee products manufactured by a number of nationwide coffee manufacturers, such as Kraft Foods, Proctor & Gamble and Nestlé, to specialty grade coffee. We believe that our customers choose among retailers primarily on the basis of product quality, service, coffeehouse ambiance, convenience, and to a lesser extent, on price. The performance of individual coffeehouses or mall coffee stores may also be affected by factors such as traffic patterns and the type, number and proximity of competing coffeehouses or mall coffee stores. In addition, factors such as inflation, increased coffee bean, food, labor and employee benefit costs, and the availability of experienced management and hourly employees may also adversely affect the specialty coffee retail business in general and our coffeehouses and mall coffee stores in particular. Our company operated retail locations are concentrated in the western region of the United States, and therefore our business is subject to fluctuations if adverse business conditions occur in that region. Our company operated retail locations are primarily located in the western region of the United States. Accordingly, we are susceptible to fluctuations in our business caused by adverse economic or other conditions in this region, including natural or other disasters. In addition, some of our competitors have many more retail locations than we do. Consequently, adverse economic or other conditions in a region, a decline in the profitability of several existing retail locations or the introduction of several unsuccessful new retail locations in a geographic area could have a more significant effect on our results of operations than would be the case for a company with a larger number of retail locations or with more geographically dispersed retail locations. 15 Table of Contents Our supply costs may be higher than we expect because of fluctuations in availability and cost of unroasted coffee. Increases in the price of green coffee, or the unavailability of adequate supplies of green coffee of the quality we seek, whether due to the failure of our suppliers to perform, conditions in coffee-producing countries, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend upon both outside brokers and our direct contacts with exporters and growers in countries of origin for our supply of green coffee. Coffee supply and price are subject to significant volatility beyond our control. Although most coffee trades in the commodity market, coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium above commodity coffee pricing, depending upon the origin, supply and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be affected by a number of factors in the producing countries, including weather, political and economic conditions. In addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations, such as the International Coffee Organization or the Association of Coffee Producing Countries. These organizations have historically attempted to establish commodity price controls of green coffee through agreements that establish export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies worldwide. These organizations, or others, may succeed in raising green coffee prices. Should this happen, we may not be able to maintain our gross margins by raising prices without affecting demand. Compliance with health, franchising and other government regulations applicable to us could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each retail location and roasting facility is and will be subject to licensing and reporting requirements by a number of governmental authorities. These governmental authorities include federal, state and local health, environmental, labor relations, sanitation, building, zoning, fire, safety and other departments that have jurisdiction over the development and operation of our retail locations. Our activities are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act and related regulations, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Changes in any of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Delays or failures in obtaining or maintaining required construction and operating licenses, permits or approvals could delay or prevent the opening of new retail locations, or could materially and adversely affect the operation of existing retail locations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain necessary variances or amendments to required licenses, permits or other approvals on a cost-effective or timely basis in order to construct and develop retail locations in the future. We are also subject to federal regulation and certain state laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises and the franchisor-franchisee relationship. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and on provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require companies to register certain materials before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or registration approvals to sell franchises could delay or preclude franchise sales and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any franchise law violations may give existing and future franchisees a basis to bring claims against us. Franchise law violation claims could include unfair business practices, negligent misrepresentation, fraud, or statutory franchise investment or relationship violations. Remedies may include damages or rescission of the franchise agreement by the franchisee. These claims may already exist and their assertion against us could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business. Our continued success largely will depend on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of services of these individuals could disrupt operations. Although we have employment agreements with each of our executive officers, any of our executive officers can terminate their employment if 16 Table of Contents he or she chooses to do so. In addition, our success and the success of our franchisees will depend upon our and their ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified retail operators and other management personnel, as well as a sufficient number of qualified employees. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some geographic areas. Our inability to recruit and retain such individuals may delay the planned openings of new retail locations or result in higher employee turnover in existing retail locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from our customers. We may be subject to complaints from or litigation by customers who allege beverage or food-related illness, injuries suffered on the premises or other quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. We may also be the subject of complaints or allegations from current, former or prospective employees from time-to-time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary spending could negatively affect our results. Our retail locations offer specialty coffee beans, brewed coffee beverages, espresso-based beverages, blended drinks and light food items served in a casual setting. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these types of coffee-based beverages and this style of casual dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our coffee-based beverages or casual setting could materially adversely affect our future profitability. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on a number of factors that affect discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our lack of diversification may affect business if demand is reduced. Our business is primarily centered on one product: fresh specialty grade coffee. To date, our operations have been limited to primarily the purchase and roasting of green coffee beans and the sale of whole bean coffee, coffee beverages and espresso drinks through our franchise coffee stores, coffeehouses, and wholesale coffee and mail order businesses. Any decrease in demand for coffee would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or trade names could adversely affect our efforts to establish brand equity. Our ability to successfully expand our business will depend in part on our ability to maintain “brand equity” through the use of our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos. We currently hold a number of trademarks and service marks related to our brands. Some or all of our rights related to our intellectual property may not be enforceable, even if registered, against any prior users of similar intellectual property or our competitors who seek or intend to utilize similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. If we are unable to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to capitalize on our efforts to maintain brand equity. It is possible that we will encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations, including foreign countries. Claims from prior users could limit our operations or cause us to pay damages or licensing fees to a prior user or registrant of similar intellectual property. 17 Table of Contents 