Item 1A. Risk factors RISK FACTORS RELATING TO DIEDRICH COFFEE AND ITS BUSINESS Historical losses from continuing operations may continue and, as a result, the price of our common stock may be negatively affected. We had net losses from continuing operations of $179,000 for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2009 and $11,385,000 for the fiscal year ended June 25, 2008. We could continue to suffer losses in the future, which may negatively affect our stock price. If we are not able to grow our business, the results of our operations and our financial condition may be adversely impacted. We are a specialty coffee roaster, wholesaler and ecommerce retailer. The majority of our revenue is generated from wholesale customers. To grow, we must: • expand Diedrich Coffee, Coffee People and Gloria Jean’s wholesale sales; • continue to add additional production capacity to meet planned product demands; • continue to upgrade inventory control, marketing and information systems; and • impose and maintain strict quality control from green coffee acquisition to the fresh cup of brewed coffee in a customer’s hand. Future inability to grow our business resulting from, among other things, failing to execute any of the above factors may adversely affect the results of our operations and our financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. From time to time, our operating results may fall below investor expectations. These results are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including the fluctuations in the price of green coffee; competition from existing and new competitors; and changes in consumer preferences. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results as the result of these factors or for any other reason could cause our stock price to decline. Because we have only one roasting facility, a significant interruption in the operation of this facility could potentially disrupt our operations. We currently operate one coffee roasting facility and one distribution facility. A significant interruption in the operation of either of these facilities, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is highly competitive and we may not have the resources to compete effectively. With low barriers to entry, competition in our industry is expected to increase from national and regional chains. Our whole bean coffees compete directly against specialty coffees sold at specialty retailers, variety and discount stores, and a growing number of specialty coffee stores. Many specialty coffee companies, including Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, S&D Coffee, Boyd Coffee and Starbucks sell whole bean coffees through 6 Table of Contents these channels. In addition, we compete to draw customers of standard or commercial coffee, and consumers of substitute coffee products manufactured by a number of nationwide coffee manufacturers, such as Kraft Foods, Proctor & Gamble and Nestlé, to specialty grade coffee. Our supply costs may be higher than we expect because of fluctuations in availability and cost of unroasted coffee. Increases in the price of green coffee, or the unavailability of adequate supplies of green coffee of the quality we seek, whether due to the failure of our suppliers to perform, conditions in coffee-producing countries, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Should this happen, we may not be able to maintain our gross margins by raising prices without affecting demand. Compliance with government regulations applicable to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our roasting facility is subject to licensing and reporting requirements by a number of governmental authorities. These governmental authorities include federal, state and local health, environmental, labor relations, sanitation, building, zoning, fire, safety and other departments. Changes in any of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business. Our continued success largely will depend on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated and qualified employees. The inability to recruit and retain such individuals may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our lack of diversification may affect business if demand is reduced. Our business is primarily centered on one product: specialty grade coffee. Our operations have been limited to primarily the roasting and packaging of green coffee beans and the sale of coffee in a variety of packaging formats, especially K-Cups®, through our wholesale business channel. Any decrease in demand for specialty coffee would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our wholesales revenues are generated substantially all from the sale of K-Cups. We generate substantially all of our revenues from the sale of K-Cups® which is licensed from Keurig on a non-exclusive basis. Any issues with this licensing arrangement will have a material adverse effect on our operations. Keurig is also our largest customer. Our relationship with Keurig is critical to the success of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 