Item 1A. Risk factors RISK FACTORS RELATING TO DIEDRICH COFFEE AND ITS BUSINESS Historical losses from continuing operations may continue and, as a result, the price of our common stock may be negatively affected. We had net losses from continuing operations of $14,547,000 for the fiscal year ended June 25, 2008 and $3,749,000 for the fiscal year ended June 27, 2007. We could continue to suffer losses in the future, which may negatively affect our stock price. If we are not able to grow our business, the results of our operations and our financial condition may be adversely impacted. We are a specialty coffee roaster, wholesaler and retailer. The majority of our revenue is generated from wholesale customers. We also sell brewed, espresso-based and various blended beverages through our company-operated and franchised retail locations. To grow, we must: • expand Diedrich Coffee, Coffee People and Gloria Jean’s wholesale sales; • attract single and multi-store franchisees for our Gloria Jean’s brand in the United States; • continue to upgrade Gloria Jean’s products and programs; • have our single and multi store franchisees obtain suitable sites at acceptable costs in highly competitive real estate markets; • integrate newly franchised or corporate locations into existing product distribution; • continue to upgrade inventory control, marketing and information systems; and • impose and maintain strict quality control from green coffee acquisition to the fresh cup of brewed coffee in a customer’s hand. 9 Table of Contents Future inability to grow our business resulting from, among other things, failing to execute any of the above factors may adversely affect the results of our operations and our financial condition. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to our franchisees, and the terms of our franchise agreements require our franchisees to maintain certain minimum operating standards; however, the quality of franchised operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Our growth through single and multi-store franchisees may not occur as rapidly as we currently anticipate. Our ability to recruit, retain and contract with qualified franchisees has become, and will continue to be, increasingly important to our operations as we expand. Our franchisees are dependent upon the availability of adequate sources of financing on acceptable terms in order to meet their development obligations. Such financing may not be available to our franchisees, or only available upon disadvantageous terms. Failure to execute on our strategy to grow through franchise store development could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. From time to time, our operating results may fall below investor expectations. These results are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including the fluctuations in the price of green coffee; competition from existing and new competitors; the number, timing and mix of franchise store openings or closings; comparable franchisee same-store sales; and changes in consumer preferences. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results as the result of these factors or for any other reason could cause our stock price to decline. Because we have only one roasting facility, a significant interruption in the operation of this facility could potentially disrupt our operations. We currently operate one coffee roasting and distribution facility. A significant interruption in the operation of this facility, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. Future changes in minimum wage requirements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A number of our employees are subject to minimum wage requirements. There can be no assurance that further increases in minimum wage will not be implemented in jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pass additional increases in labor costs through to our customers in the form of price adjustments and, accordingly, such minimum wage increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our franchisees may not be able to renew leases or control rent increases at retail locations. All of our 5 company-operated coffeehouses are presently on leased premises. While some Gloria Jean’s stores are leased by an indirect subsidiary of Coffee People, Inc., in most cases, the franchisees pay their rent directly to their landlord. Upon the expiration of some of these leases, there is no automatic renewal or option to renew. Consequently, these leases may not be renewed. If they are renewed, rents may increase substantially. 10 Table of Contents Either of these events could adversely affect us. Other leases are subject to renewal at fair market value, which could involve substantial rent increases, or are subject to renewal with scheduled rent increases, which could result in rents being above fair market value. Our industry is highly competitive and we may not have the resources to compete effectively. With low barriers to entry, competition in our industry is expected to increase from national and regional chains, franchise operators and local specialty coffee stores. Our whole bean coffees compete directly against specialty coffees sold at specialty retailers, variety and discount stores, and a growing number of specialty coffee stores. Many specialty coffee companies, including Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, S&D Coffee, Boyd Coffee and Starbucks sell whole bean coffees through these channels. In our sale of coffee beverages and espresso drinks, we compete directly against all other specialty grade coffee roasters, coffeehouses, espresso/coffee bars and mall coffee stores, as well as against restaurant and beverage outlets that serve coffee, and a growing number of espresso stands, carts, and stores. Our competition at this level includes a growing number of specialty coffee retailers, including Starbucks, Barnie’s, Coffee Beanery Ltd., Caribou Coffee, Peet’s Coffee, Tully’s Coffee and many others. The attractiveness of the gourmet specialty coffeehouse market may draw additional competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources than we have. In addition, we compete to draw customers of standard or commercial coffee, and consumers of substitute coffee products manufactured by a number of nationwide coffee manufacturers, such as Kraft Foods, Proctor & Gamble and Nestlé, to specialty grade coffee. Our supply costs may be higher than we expect because of fluctuations in availability and cost of unroasted coffee. Increases in the price of green coffee, or the unavailability of adequate supplies of green coffee of the quality we seek, whether due to the failure of our suppliers to perform, conditions in coffee-producing countries, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Should this happen, we may not be able to maintain our gross margins by raising prices without affecting demand. Compliance with health, franchising and other government regulations applicable to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our roasting facility and retail locations are subject to licensing and reporting requirements by a number of governmental authorities. These governmental authorities include federal, state and local health, environmental, labor relations, sanitation, building, zoning, fire, safety and other departments that have jurisdiction over the development and operation of our retail locations. Changes in any of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to federal regulation and certain state laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises and the franchisor-franchisee relationship. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or registration approvals to sell franchises could delay or preclude franchise sales and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business. Our continued success largely will depend on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our success and the success of our franchisees will depend upon our and their ability to attract and retain highly motivated and qualified employees. The inability to recruit and retain such individuals may delay planned openings of new franchise locations and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our lack of diversification may affect business if demand is reduced. Our business is primarily centered on one product: specialty grade coffee. To date, our operations have been limited to primarily the purchase and roasting of green coffee beans and the sale of whole bean coffee, coffee beverages and espresso drinks through our franchise coffee stores, coffeehouses, and wholesale coffee and mail order businesses. Any decrease in demand for coffee would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 