Item 1A. Risk Factors. Statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not based on historical fact are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections, and the beliefs and assumptions of our management including, without limitation, our expectations regarding our product candidates, including the success and timing of our preclinical, clinical and development programs, the submission of regulatory filings and proposed partnering arrangements, the outcome of any litigation, collaboration, merger, acquisition and fund raising efforts, results of operations, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses and the sufficiency of our cash for future operations. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “could,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “continue,” or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of those terms. We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. Risks Related to our Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing As a result of our current lack of financial liquidity and negative stockholders’ equity we may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. Since inception, we have primarily satisfied our working capital requirements from the sale of our securities through private placements. These private placements have included the sale and issuance of preferred stock, common stock, promissory notes and convertible debentures. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we obtained all of our funding from one key investor and our license transaction with Navidea. Our key investor, Mr. Gipson, is a related party to the Company. He serves as a senior director of Ingalls & Snyder and served as a director of the Company in 2004. His activities with the Company are more fully described in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements contained herein. In the 3 Table of Contents event that Mr. Gipson cannot provide future funding or we cannot obtain any additional funding from sources other than Mr. Gipson, we may need to cease operations or modify our current business plan and in any such event may not be able to continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses from operations since inception and anticipate losses for the foreseeable future. We expect to incur operating losses for at least the next three years. The level of our operating losses may increase in the future if Navidea fails to satisfy its contractual obligations to develop and commercialize Altropane. We will never generate revenues or achieve profitability unless Navidea or we obtain regulatory approval and market acceptance of our Altropane product. This will require Navidea and/or us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including clinical trial stages of development, obtaining regulatory approval for Altropane, and manufacturing, marketing and selling it. We may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. As of December 31, 2013, we have experienced total net losses since inception of approximately $199,635,000, stockholders’ deficit of approximately $10,660,000 and a net working capital deficit of approximately $1,324,000. The cash and cash equivalents available at December 31, 2013 will not provide sufficient working capital to meet our anticipated expenditures for the next twelve months. We believe that the cash available as of March 31, 2014 may cover our expenses through April 2014. Our independent registered accounting firm has added language to their opinion on the financial statements contained in this annual report indicating substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We are a development stage company. Biotechnology companies that have no approved products or other sources of revenue are generally referred to as development stage companies. We have never generated revenues from product sales and we do not currently expect to generate revenues from product sales for at least the next three years. Our future revenues are expected to be derived from royalties paid to us by Navidea if and when the Altropane product is approved and sold by them. There can be no assurances that Altropane will be approved or that sales will result. If we do generate revenues and operating profits in the future, our ability to continue to do so in the long term could be affected by Navidea’s ability to invest in marketing of Altropane and by the introduction of competitors’ products and other market factors. Risks Related to Clinical Development of our Altropane Product Candidate Navidea is obligated under the license agreement to complete the clinical development of Altropane and to seek its regulatory approval. However, our Altropane product candidate is only one of a number of product candidates in the Navidea development pipeline. We can provide no assurances that development of our Altropane product candidate by Navidea will be or remain a high priority project for Navidea. There can be no assurances that Navidea will have or be able to gain access to the capital and human resources necessary to satisfy its obligations under the license agreement. If Navidea is unable to meet its obligations under the license agreement, we would be forced to terminate the license agreement and attempt to identify a new development partner for the Altropane product candidate. Risks Related to Commercialization Our success depends on Navidea’s ability to successfully develop our Altropane product candidate into a commercial product. To date, we have not marketed, distributed or sold any products. The success of our business depends primarily upon Navidea’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize our Altropane product candidate. Successful research and product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and 4 Table of Contents development projects produce a commercial product. In the biotechnology industry, it has been estimated that less than five percent of the technologies for which research and development efforts are initiated ultimately result in an approved product. If we are unable to successfully commercialize Altropane or any of our other product candidates, our business would be materially harmed and we would likely be forced to cease operations. Risks Related to Regulation Our Altropane product candidate is subject to rigorous regulatory review and, even if approved, remains subject to extensive regulation. Our out-licensed product candidate must undergo a rigorous regulatory approval process which includes extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate safety and efficacy before any resulting product can be marketed. Our research and development activities are regulated by a number of government authorities in the United States and other countries, including the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The clinical trial and regulatory approval process usually requires many years and substantial cost. To date, neither the FDA nor any of its international equivalents has approved any of our product candidates for marketing. Obtaining FDA approval to sell our product candidates is time-consuming and expensive. The FDA usually takes at least 12 to 18 months to review a New Drug Application (NDA) which must be submitted before the FDA will consider granting approval to sell a product. If the FDA requests additional information, it may take even longer for the FDA to make a decision especially if the additional information that they request requires us to complete additional studies. We may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. After reviewing any NDA we submit, the FDA or its foreign equivalents may decide not to approve our products. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. Other risks associated with the regulatory approval process include: • Regulatory approvals may impose significant limitations on the uses for which any approved products may be marketed; • Any marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to periodic reviews and audits, and any discovery of previously unrecognized problems with a product or manufacturer could result in suspension or limitation of approvals; • Changes in existing regulatory requirements, or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, could prevent or affect the timing of our ability to achieve regulatory compliance. Federal and state laws, regulations and policies may be changed with possible retroactive effect, and how these rules actually operate can depend heavily on administrative policies and interpretation over which we have no control, and we may possess inadequate experience to assess their full impact upon our business; and • The approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product, and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property If we are unable to secure adequate patent protection for our technologies; then we may not be able to compete effectively. At the present time, we do not have patent protection for all uses of our technologies. There is significant competition in the field of CNS diseases. Our competitors may seek patent protection for their technologies, and such patent applications or rights might conflict with the patent protection that we are seeking for our technologies. If we do not obtain patent protection for our technologies, or if others obtain patent rights that 5 Table of Contents block our ability to develop and market our technologies, our business prospects may be significantly and negatively affected. Further, even if patents can be obtained, these patents may not provide us with any competitive advantage if our competitors have stronger patent positions or if their product candidates work better in clinical trials than our product candidates. Our patents may also be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. We in-license a significant portion of our intellectual property and if we fail to comply with our obligations under any of the related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary to develop our product candidate. We have entered into license agreements with Harvard, which give us rights to intellectual property that is necessary for our business. These license arrangements impose various development and royalty obligations on us. If we breach these obligations and fail to cure such breach in a timely manner, these exclusive licenses could be converted to non-exclusive licenses or the agreements could be terminated, which would result in our being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology. Risks Related to Competition We are engaged in highly competitive industries dominated by larger, more experienced and better capitalized companies. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, rapidly changing, and are dominated by larger, more experienced and better capitalized companies. Such greater experience and financial strength may enable them to bring their products to market sooner than Navidea or us, thereby gaining the competitive advantage of being the first to market. Research on the causes of, and possible treatments for, diseases for which we are trying to develop therapeutic or diagnostic products are developing rapidly and there is a potential for extensive technological innovation in relatively short periods of time. To our knowledge, there is only one company, GE Healthcare (formerly Nycomed/Amersham), that has marketed a diagnostic imaging agent for PD and DLB, DaTSCAN ® . GE Healthcare has obtained marketing approval in Europe. In January, 2011, GE Healthcare obtained approval to market DaTSCAN in the U.S. as well. GE Healthcare has significantly greater infrastructure and financial resources than us. Marketing approval s in the US and Europe combined with their established market presence, and greater financial strength could position GE to make it difficult for Navidea or us to successfully market Altropane if it is approved for sale. Risks Related to our Stock Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). These requirements may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 6 Table of Contents 