Item 1A. Risk Factors. Statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not based on historical fact are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections, and the beliefs and assumptions of our management including, without limitation, our expectations regarding our product candidates, including the success and timing of our preclinical, clinical and development programs, the submission of regulatory filings and proposed partnering arrangements, the outcome of any litigation, collaboration, merger, acquisition and fund raising efforts, results of operations, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses and the sufficiency of our cash for future operations. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “could,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “continue,” or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of those terms. We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. Risks Related to our Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing WE ARE A DEVELOPMENT STAGE COMPANY. WE HAVE INCURRED LOSSES FROM OUR OPERATIONS SINCE INCEPTION AND ANTICIPATE LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY UNLESS WE OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL AND MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. WE WILL NEED SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONAL FUNDING IN ORDER TO CONTINUE OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SECURE SUCH FUNDING ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS, WE WILL NEED TO CEASE OPERATIONS, SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE, DELAY OR CEASE ONE OR MORE OF OUR RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, OR SURRENDER RIGHTS TO SOME OR ALL OF OUR TECHNOLOGIES. IF WE VIOLATE A DEBT COVENANT OR DEFAULT UNDER OUR DEBT AGREEMENTS, WE MAY NEED TO CEASE OPERATIONS OR REDUCE, CEASE OR DELAY ONE OR MORE OF OUR RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, ADJUST OUR CURRENT BUSINESS PLAN AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. Biotechnology companies that have no approved products or other sources of revenue are generally referred to as development stage companies. We have never generated revenues from product sales and we do not currently expect to generate revenues from product sales for at least the next three years. If we do generate revenues and operating profits in the future, our ability to continue to do so in the long term could be affected by the introduction of competitors’ products and other market factors. We expect to incur significant operating losses for at least the next three years. The level of our operating losses may increase in the future if more of 18 Table of Contents our product candidates begin human clinical trials. We will never generate revenues or achieve profitability unless we obtain regulatory approval and market acceptance of our product candidates. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including clinical trial stages of development, obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates, and manufacturing, marketing and selling them. We may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We require significant funds to conduct research and development activities, including preclinical studies and clinical trials of our technologies, and to commercialize our product candidates. Because the successful development of our product candidates is uncertain, we are unable to estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and commercialize them. Our funding requirements depend on many factors, including: • The scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities; • Future clinical trial results; • The terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; • The cost and timing of regulatory approvals and of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • The cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and any products that we may develop; • The cost of obtaining and maintaining licenses to use patented technologies; • The effect of competing technological and market developments; and • The cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights and other patent-related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial revenue from product sales or through collaborative arrangements with third parties, we will need to raise additional capital. To date, we have experienced negative cash flows from operations and have funded our operations primarily from equity and debt financings. As of December 31, 2008, we have experienced total net losses since inception of approximately $183,899,000, stockholders’ deficit of approximately $40,013,000 and a net working capital deficit of approximately $4,624,000. The cash and cash equivalents available at December 31, 2008 will not provide sufficient working capital to meet our anticipated expenditures for the next twelve months. At March 23, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $187,000 which combined with our ability to control certain costs, including those related to clinical trial programs, preclinical activities, and certain general and administrative expenses will enable us to meet our anticipated cash expenditures into April 2009. We must immediately raise additional funds in order to continue operations. In order to continue as a going concern, we will therefore need to raise additional capital through one or more of the following: a debt financing, an equity offering, or a collaboration, merger, acquisition or other transaction with one or more pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. We are currently engaged in fundraising efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our fundraising efforts or that additional funds will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We also cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain additional credit from, or effect additional sales of debt or equity securities to the Purchasers (described in ITEM 7 — Liquidity and Capital Resources). If we are unable to raise additional or sufficient capital, we will need to cease operations or reduce, cease or delay one or more of our research or development programs, adjust our current business plan and may not be able to continue as a going concern. If we violate a debt covenant or default under the March 2008 Amended Purchase Agreement or the June 2008 Purchase Agreement (described in ITEM 7 — Liquidity and Capital Resources) we may need to cease operations or reduce, cease or delay one or more of our research or development programs, adjust our current business plan and may not be able to continue as a going concern. Additionally, it is likely that our common stock will be 19 Table of Contents delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market in the near future, which could have an adverse affect on our ability to obtain future financing and could adversely impact our stock price and the liquidity of our common stock. See the risk factor entitled “Our common stock will likely be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. In connection with the March 2005 Financing, we agreed with the March 2005 Investors, that, subject to certain exceptions, we would not issue any shares of our common stock at a per share price less than $2.50 without the prior consent of the March 2005 Investors holding at least a majority of the shares issued in the March 2005 Financing. On March 23, 2009, the closing price of our common stock was $0.74. The failure to receive the requisite waiver or consent of the March 2005 Investors could have the effect of delaying or preventing the consummation of a financing by us should the price per share in such financing be set at less than $2.50. Alternatively, to secure funds, we may be required to enter financing arrangements with others that may require us to surrender rights to some or all of our technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If the results of our current or future clinical trials are not favorable, it may negatively affect our ability to raise additional funds. If we are successful in obtaining additional equity and/or debt financing, the terms of such financing will have the effect of diluting the holdings and the rights of our stockholders. Estimates about how much funding will be required are based on a number of assumptions, all of which are subject to change based on the results and progress of our research and development activities. If we are unable to raise additional capital we will need to reduce, cease or delay one or more of our research or development programs and adjust our current business plan. Our ability to continue to advance our clinical programs, including the development of Altropane and Cethrin, is affected by the availability of financial resources to fund each program. Financial considerations have caused us to modify planned development activities for our clinical programs and we have decided to suspend development of our preclinical programs until we are able to secure additional working capital. If we are not able to raise additional capital, we will not have sufficient funds to complete the clinical trial programs for the Altropane molecular imaging agent or Cethrin. OUR ESTIMATES OF OUR LIABILITY UNDER OUR BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS LEASE MAY CHANGE. Our lease in Boston, Massachusetts expires in 2012. We have entered into two sublease agreements covering all 6,600 square feet under this lease through the date of expiration. In determining our obligations under the lease that we do not expect to occupy, we have made certain assumptions for the discounted estimated cash flows related to the rental payments that our subtenants have agreed to pay. We may be required to change our estimates in the future as a result of, among other things, the default of one or both of our subtenants with respect to their payment obligations. Any such adjustments to the estimate of liability could be material. Risks Related to Commercialization OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES INTO COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS. To date, we have not marketed, distributed or sold any products and, with the exception of Altropane and Cethrin, all of our technologies and early-stage product candidates are in preclinical development. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. Successful research and product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. In the biotechnology industry, it has been estimated that less than five percent of the technologies for which research and development efforts are initiated ultimately result in an approved product. If we are unable to successfully commercialize Altropane or Cethrin or any of our other product candidates, our business would be materially harmed. 20 Table of Contents EVEN IF WE RECEIVE APPROVAL TO MARKET OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES, THE MARKET MAY NOT BE RECEPTIVE TO OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES UPON THEIR COMMERCIAL INTRODUCTION, WHICH COULD PREVENT US FROM SUCCESSFULLY COMMERCIALIZING OUR PRODUCTS AND FROM BEING PROFITABLE. Even if our drug candidates are successfully developed, our success and growth will also depend upon the acceptance of these product candidates by physicians and third-party payors. Acceptance of our product development candidates will be a function of our products being clinically useful, being cost effective and demonstrating superior diagnostic or therapeutic effect with an acceptable side effect profile as compared to existing or future treatments. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time. Factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates under development include: • The timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approval and the countries in which approvals are obtained; • The safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our products; • The competitive pricing of our products; • The success of our education and marketing programs; • The sales and marketing efforts of competitors; and • The availability and amount of government and third-party payor reimbursement. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenues from product sales to maintain or grow our business. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS, INCLUDING MERGERS, JOINT VENTURES AND ACQUISITIONS, PRESENT MANY RISKS, AND WE MAY NOT REALIZE THE ANTICIPATED FINANCIAL AND STRATEGIC GOALS FOR ANY SUCH TRANSACTIONS. We may in the future engage in business combinations to gain access to complementary companies, products and technologies. Such transactions involve a number of risks, including: • We may find that the target company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or that economic conditions change, all of which may generate a future impairment charge; • We may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of an acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of an acquired business; • We may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies; • We may encounter technical difficulties or failures with the performance of any acquired technologies or drug products or may experience unfavorable results in the clinical studies related to such technologies or products; • We or our business partner(s) may face product liability risks associated with the sale of the combined company’s products; • Our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing diverse locations; • We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, internal controls, procedures and policies across locations; • The transaction may result in litigation from terminated employees or third-parties; and • We may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. 21 Table of Contents These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. The consideration paid in connection with an acquisition also affects our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs (such as acquired in-process research and development costs) and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Risks Related to Regulation IF OUR PRECLINICAL TESTING AND CLINICAL TRIALS ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL, WE WILL NOT OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL FOR COMMERCIAL SALE OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. We will be required to demonstrate, through preclinical testing and clinical trials, that our product candidates are safe and effective before we can obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our product candidates. Preclinical testing and clinical trials are lengthy and expensive and the historical rate of failure for product candidates is high. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in preclinical study or in early human clinical trials, may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials. Except for Altropane and Cethrin, we have not yet received IND authorization from the FDA for our other product candidates which will be required before we can begin clinical trials in the United States. We may not submit INDs for our product candidates if we are unable to accumulate the necessary preclinical data for the filing of an IND. The FDA may request additional preclinical data before allowing us to commence clinical trials. The FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Adverse side effects of a drug candidate on subjects or patients in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any or all indications of use. After a series of discussions with the FDA and our expert advisors, the POET-2 program was designed as a two-part Phase III program using the optimized Altropane image acquisition protocol. The first part of the program enrolled 54 subjects in a multi-center clinical study to acquire a set of Altropane images which will be used to train the expert readers, as is the customary process for clinical trials of molecular imaging agents. Enrollment in the first part of POET-2 was completed in January 2009. The second part involves two concurrent, replicate, multi-center Phase III trials. These two concurrent trials, the final design of which is under discussion with the FDA, are planned to be initiated during the second half of 2009. We believe that BioAxone has not met the requirements of the Cethrin License. We are working with BioAxone to address deficiencies related to BioAxone’s production of Cethrin but there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. Any failure to address these deficiencies could delay future clinical development for Cethrin. Current development for Cethrin, including the manufacturing of additional Cethrin drug product, has been suspended until such time that we have resolved our dispute with BioAxone, secured additional working capital and/or a strategic partnership, and discussed the future development plan with the regulatory authorities. There is no assurance that the results obtained to date and/or any further work completed in the future will be sufficient to achieve the approvability of Altropane or Cethrin. 22 Table of Contents Clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment which is a function of many factors, including the size of the potential patient population, the nature of the protocol, the availability of existing treatments for the indicated disease and the eligibility criteria for enrolling in the clinical trial. Delays or difficulties in completing patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend those trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. We have however encountered problems with the Cethrin License. See the risk factor entitled “We in-license a significant portion of our intellectual property and if we fail to comply with our obligations under any of the related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary to develop our product candidates.” Any of the following could delay the initiation or the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials: • Ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • Delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials; • Lower than anticipated retention rate of patients and volunteers in clinical trials; • Negative or inconclusive results of clinical trials or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials related to the program are successful; • Insufficient supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; • Serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or • The placement of a clinical trial on hold. OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES ARE SUBJECT TO RIGOROUS REGULATORY REVIEW AND, EVEN IF APPROVED, REMAIN SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION. Our technologies and product candidates must undergo a rigorous regulatory approval process which includes extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate safety and efficacy before any resulting product can be marketed. Our research and development activities are regulated by a number of government authorities in the United States and other countries, including the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The clinical trial and regulatory approval process usually requires many years and substantial cost. To date, neither the FDA nor any of its international equivalents has approved any of our product candidates for marketing. The FDA regulates drugs in the United States, including their testing, manufacturing and marketing. Data obtained from testing is subject to varying interpretations which can delay, limit or prevent FDA approval. The FDA has stringent laboratory and manufacturing standards which must be complied with before we can test our product candidates in people or make them commercially available. Examples of these standards include Good Laboratory Practices and current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. Our compliance with these standards is subject to initial certification by independent inspectors and continuing audits thereafter. In addition, manufacturers of our product candidates are subject to the FDA’s cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. If any third-party manufacturer fails to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. We believe that BioAxone has not the requirements of the Cethrin License. See the risk factor entitled “We in-license a significant portion of our intellectual property and if we fail to comply with our obligations under any of the related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary to develop our product candidates.” 23 Table of Contents Obtaining FDA approval to sell our product candidates is time-consuming and expensive. The FDA usually takes at least 12 to 18 months to review an NDA which must be submitted before the FDA will consider granting approval to sell a product. If the FDA requests additional information, it may take even longer for the FDA to make a decision especially if the additional information that they request requires us to complete additional studies. We may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. After reviewing any NDA we submit, the FDA or its foreign equivalents may decide not to approve our products. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. Other risks associated with the regulatory approval process include: • Regulatory approvals may impose significant limitations on the uses for which any approved products may be marketed; • Any marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to periodic reviews and audits, and any discovery of previously unrecognized problems with a product or manufacturer could result in suspension or limitation of approvals; • Changes in existing regulatory requirements, or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, could prevent or affect the timing of our ability to achieve regulatory compliance. Federal and state laws, regulations and policies may be changed with possible retroactive effect, and how these rules actually operate can depend heavily on administrative policies and interpretation over which we have no control, and we may possess inadequate experience to assess their full impact upon our business; and • The approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product, and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. OUR PRODUCTS COULD BE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS OR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE MARKET AND WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PENALTIES IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS, OR IF WE EXPERIENCE UNANTICIPATED PROBLEMS WITH OUR PRODUCTS, WHEN AND IF ANY OF THEM ARE APPROVED. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration requirements, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. The manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our product candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: • Restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; • Warning letters; • Withdrawal of the products from the market; • Refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • Recall; 24 Table of Contents • Fines; • Suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • Refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • Product seizure; and • Injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. FAILURE TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL IN FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS WOULD PREVENT US FROM MARKETING OUR PRODUCTS ABROAD. Although we have not initiated any marketing efforts in foreign jurisdictions, we intend in the future to market our products outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval abroad may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or approval by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market outside the United States. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS TEND TO IMPOSE STRICT PRICE CONTROLS WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES, IF ANY. The pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control in some foreign countries. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SECURE ADEQUATE PATENT PROTECTION FOR OUR TECHNOLOGIES, THEN WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY AS A BIOTECHNOLOGY COMPANY. At the present time, we do not have patent protection for all uses of our technologies. There is significant competition in the field of CNS diseases, our primary scientific area of research and development. Our competitors may seek patent protection for their technologies, and such patent applications or rights might conflict with the patent protection that we are seeking for our technologies. If we do not obtain patent protection for our technologies, or if others obtain patent rights that block our ability to develop and market our technologies, our business prospects may be significantly and negatively affected. Further, even if patents can be obtained, these patents may not provide us with any competitive advantage if our competitors have stronger patent positions or if their product candidates work better in clinical trials than our product candidates. Our patents may also be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. 25 Table of Contents Our patent strategy is to obtain broad patent protection, in the United States and in major developed countries, for our technologies and their related medical indications. Risks associated with protecting our patent and proprietary rights include the following: • Our ability to protect our technologies could be delayed or negatively affected if the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, requires additional experimental evidence that our technologies work; • Our competitors may develop similar technologies or products, or duplicate any technology developed by us; • Our competitors may develop products which are similar to ours but which do not infringe our patents or products; • Our competitors may successfully challenge one or more of our patents in an interference or litigation proceeding; • Our technologies may infringe the patents or rights of other parties who may decide not to grant a license to us. We may have to change our products or processes, pay licensing fees or stop certain activities because of the patent rights of third parties which could cause additional unexpected costs and delays; • Patent law in the fields of healthcare and biotechnology is still evolving and future changes in such laws might conflict with our existing and future patent rights, or the rights of others; • Our collaborators, employees and consultants may breach the confidentiality agreements that we enter into to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We may not have adequate remedies for such breach; and • There may be disputes as to the ownership of technological information developed by consultants, scientific advisors or other third parties which may not be resolved in our favor. WE IN-LICENSE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER ANY OF THE RELATED AGREEMENTS, WE COULD LOSE LICENSE RIGHTS THAT ARE NECESSARY TO DEVELOP OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. We have entered into license agreements with BioAxone, Harvard University and its affiliated hospitals, or Harvard and its Affiliates, and Children’s Medical Center Corporation, or CMCC, that give us rights to intellectual property that is necessary for our business. These license arrangements impose various development, royalty and other obligations on us. If we breach these obligations and fail to cure such breach in a timely manner, these exclusive licenses could be converted to non-exclusive licenses or the agreements could be terminated, which would result in our being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology. In January 2009, the Company received notice from BioAxone alleging that we had failed to meet one of the performance milestones in the Cethrin License that was required to have been met on or before January 1, 2009. This notice purported to terminate the Cethrin License, sought payment of a $2,000,000 penalty from us to BioAxone for such purported failure and requested that we transfer to BioAxone our rights to the Master Cell Bank (as defined in the Cethrin License) and all licensed intellectual property under the Cethrin License. We believe that the purported termination is without effect. Our performance obligations under the Cethrin License are specifically excused in the event that a safety issue renders such performance impossible. Our prior discovery that the Master Cell Bank from which Cethrin is manufactured may contain an unintended animal derived contaminant rendering it not in compliance with the requirements of cGMP, represents such a safety risk for Cethrin. We have notified BioAxone of the contamination issue and our position that the purported termination and demand for payment is considered to be without effect. The Cethrin License provides for all disputes arising out the Cethrin License to be settled by binding arbitration. In the event we 26 Table of Contents are unable to reach an agreement with BioAxone with respect to the licensing of Cethrin, we intend to pursue arbitration. We believe that BioAxone has not met the requirements of the Cethrin License. We are working with BioAxone to address deficiencies related to BioAxone’s production of Cethrin but there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. Any failure to address these deficiencies could delay future clinical development for Cethrin. Current development for Cethrin, including the manufacturing of additional Cethrin drug product, has been suspended until such time that we have resolved our dispute with BioAxone, secured additional working capital and/or a strategic partnership, and discussed the future development plan with the regulatory authorities. In order to continue to expand our business we may need to acquire additional product candidates including those in clinical development through in-licensing that we believe will be a strategic fit with us. We may not be able to in-license suitable product candidates at an acceptable price or at all. Engaging in any in-license will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such in-license. IF WE BECOME INVOLVED IN PATENT LITIGATION OR OTHER PROCEEDINGS RELATED TO A DETERMINATION OF RIGHTS, WE COULD INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS AND EXPENSES, SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES OR BE REQUIRED TO STOP OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION EFFORTS. A third party may sue us for infringing its patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared against us by the USPTO, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. We might be required to redesign the formulation of a product candidate so that it does not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if we are unable to enter into license agreements that are acceptable to us. Moreover, we expect that a number of our collaborations will provide that royalties payable to us for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by our collaborators to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenues from products developed through collaborations. 27 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS WITH EMPLOYEES AND OTHERS MAY NOT ADEQUATELY PREVENT DISCLOSURE OF TRADE SECRETS AND OTHER PROPRIETARY INFORMATION. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers, and other advisors. These agreements may be breached, may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties IF ANY COLLABORATOR TERMINATES OR FAILS TO PERFORM ITS OR THEIR OBLIGATIONS UNDER AGREEMENTS WITH US, THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES COULD BE DELAYED OR TERMINATED. We are dependent on expert advisors and our collaborations with research and development service providers. Our business could be adversely affected if any collaborator terminates its collaboration agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under that agreement. Most biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have established internal research and development programs, including their own facilities and employees which are under their direct control. By contrast, we have limited internal research capability and have elected to outsource substantially all of our research and development, preclinical and clinical activities. As a result, we are dependent upon our network of expert advisors and our collaborations with other research and development service providers for the development of our technologies and product candidates. These expert advisors are not our employees but provide us with important information and knowledge that may enhance our product development strategies and plans. Our collaborations with research and development service providers are important for the testing and evaluation of our technologies, in both the preclinical and clinical stages. Many of our expert advisors are employed by, or have their own collaborative relationship with Harvard and its Affiliates or CMCC. A summary of the key scientific, research and development professionals with whom we work, and a composite of their professional background and affiliations is as follows: • Larry I. Benowitz, Ph.D., Director, Laboratories for Neuroscience Research in Neurosurgery, Children’s Hospital, Boston; Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, Harvard Medical School. • Joseph R. Bianchine, M.D., Ph.D., F.A.C.P., F.A.C.C.P., Scientific Advisory Board Member, Alseres Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; former Senior Scientific Advisor, Schwarz Pharma AG. • Zhigang He, Ph.D., BM, Research Associate, Department of Neurology, Children’s Hospital Boston; Associate Professor of Neurology, Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School. • Robert S. Langer, Jr., Sc.D., Director, Alseres Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Institute Professor of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. • Peter Meltzer, Ph.D., President, Organix, Inc., Woburn, MA. Dr. Benowitz, Dr. Bianchine, Dr. He, and Dr. Langer provide scientific consultative services resulting in total payments of approximately $125,000 per year. Dr. Benowitz and Dr. He provide scientific consultative services primarily related to our nerve repair program. Dr. Bianchine provides scientific consultative services primarily related to our nerve repair and neurodegenerative disease programs. Dr. Langer provides consultative services primarily related to scientific and business services. We do not have a consulting agreement with Dr. Meltzer but do enter into research and development contracts from time to time with Organix, Inc., of which Dr. Meltzer is president. 28 Table of Contents Our significant collaborations include: • Children’s Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts where certain of our collaborating scientists perform their research efforts; • Harvard Medical School in Boston, Massachusetts where certain of our collaborating scientists perform their research efforts; • MDS Nordion in Vancouver, British Colombia which manufactures the Altropane molecular imaging agent; and • Organix, Inc. in Woburn, Massachusetts which provides non-radioactive Altropane for FDA mandated studies and synthesizes our compounds for the treatment of PD and for axon regeneration. We generally have a number of collaborations with research and development service providers ongoing at any point in time. These agreements generally cover a specific project or study, are usually for a duration between one month to one year, and expire upon completion of the project. Under these agreements, we are sometimes required to make an initial payment upon execution of the agreement with the remaining payments based upon the completion of certain specified milestones such as completion of a study or delivery of a report. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our advisors and collaborators devote to our programs or technologies. Our advisors and collaborators may have employment commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. If any of our advisors or collaborators were to breach or terminate their agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct their activities successfully and in a timely manner, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of our technologies and product candidates or our research programs could be delayed or terminated. Any such delay or termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology developed with our advisors or collaborators. These and other possible disagreements could lead to delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of our technologies, or could require or result in litigation to resolve. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our advisors and collaborators sign agreements that provide for confidentiality of our proprietary information. Nonetheless, they may not maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with every advisory or collaboration arrangement, and any unauthorized dissemination of our confidential information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR KEY WORKING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR LICENSORS, INCLUDING BIOAXONE, HARVARD AND ITS AFFILIATES AND CMCC, WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL SINCE SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR CURRENT TECHNOLOGIES WERE LICENSED FROM SUCH LICENSORS. We maintain relationships with our licensors, including BioAxone, Harvard and its Affiliates, and CMCC. Substantially all of our technologies are licensed from these licensors. Under the terms of our license agreements with BioAxone, Harvard and its Affiliates and CMCC, we acquired the exclusive, worldwide license to make, use, and sell the technology covered by each respective agreement. Among other things, the technologies licensed under these agreements include: • Cethrin compositions and methods of use; • Altropane molecular imaging agent compositions and methods of use; • Technetium-based molecular imaging agent compositions and methods of use; 29 Table of Contents • Inosine methods of use; and • DAT blocker compositions and methods of use. Generally, each of these license agreements is effective until the last patent licensed relating to the technology expires or a fixed and determined date. The patents on Cethrin expire beginning in 2022. The patents on the Altropane molecular imaging agent expire beginning in 2013. The patents on the technetium-based molecular imaging agents expire beginning in 2017. The patents for Inosine expire beginning in 2017. The patents for our DAT blockers expire beginning in 2012. We are required to make certain payments under our license agreements with our licensors which generally include: • An initial licensing fee payment upon the execution of the agreement and annual license maintenance fee; • Reimbursement payments for all patent related costs incurred by the licensor, including fees associated with the filing of continuation-in-part patent applications; • Milestone payments as licensed technology progresses through each stage of development (filing of IND, completion of one or more clinical stages and submission and approval of an NDA); and • Royalty payments on the sales of any products based on the licensed technology. In December 2006, we entered into the Cethrin License pursuant to which we were granted an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize specified compounds including, but not limited to, Cethrin as further defined in the Cethrin License. The Cethrin License calls for us to conduct development and commercialization activities of Cethrin and to pay certain pre-commercialization milestones and on-going royalties on sales of Cethrin when and if approved for marketing. The Cethrin License provides for a series of performance milestones any of which, if not achieved by us in the timeframes agreed in the Cethrin License, could form the basis of a claim for compensation to BioAxone and possibly the termination of some or all of our rights under the Cethrin License. The Cethrin License further provides us with relief from our performance obligations in the event that such performance is effectively rendered impossible due to safety or efficacy issues with Cethrin during its development. Additionally, the Cethrin License provides a warranty that all of the clinical materials provided to us by BioAxone in connection with the Cethrin License were manufactured in accordance with cGMP. In January 2009, the Company received notice from BioAxone alleging that we had failed to meet one of the performance milestones in the Cethrin License that was required to have been met on or before January 1, 2009. This notice purported to terminate the Cethrin License, sought payment of a $2,000,000 penalty from us to BioAxone for such purported failure and requested that we transfer to BioAxone our rights to the Master Cell Bank (as defined in the Cethrin License) and all licensed intellectual property under the Cethrin License. We believe that the purported termination is without effect. Our performance obligations under the Cethrin License are specifically excused in the event that a safety issue renders such performance impossible. Our prior discovery that the Master Cell Bank from which Cethrin is manufactured may contain an unintended animal derived contaminant rendering it not in compliance with the requirements of cGMP, represents such a safety risk for Cethrin. We have notified BioAxone of the contamination issue and our position that the purported termination and demand for payment is considered to be without effect. The Cethrin License provides for all disputes arising out the Cethrin License to be settled by binding arbitration. In the event we are unable to reach an agreement with BioAxone with respect to the licensing of Cethrin, we intend to pursue arbitration. We believe that BioAxone has not met the requirements of the Cethrin License. We are working with BioAxone to address deficiencies related to BioAxone’s production of Cethrin but there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. Any failure to address these deficiencies could delay future clinical development for Cethrin. Current development for Cethrin, including the manufacturing of additional Cethrin drug product, has been suspended until such time that we have resolved our dispute with BioAxone, secured additional working 30 Table of Contents capital and/or a strategic partnership, and discussed the future development plan with the regulatory authorities. We have entered into license agreements, or the CMCC Licenses, with CMCC to acquire the exclusive worldwide rights to certain axon regeneration technologies. The CMCC Licenses provide for future milestone payments of up to an aggregate of approximately $425,000 for each product candidate upon achievement of certain regulatory milestones. We have entered into license agreements, or the Harvard License Agreements, with Harvard and its Affiliates to acquire the exclusive worldwide rights to certain technologies within our molecular imaging and neurodegenerative disease programs. The Harvard License Agreements obligate us to pay up to an aggregate of approximately $2,520,000 in milestone payments in the future. The future milestone payments are generally payable only upon achievement of certain regulatory milestones. Our license agreements with Harvard and its Affiliates and CMCC generally provide for royalty payments equal to specified percentages of product sales, annual license maintenance fees and continuing patent prosecution costs. Universities and other not-for-profit research institutions are becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their findings and are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for the use of technology that they have developed. The loss of our relationship with one or more of our key licensors could adversely affect our ongoing development programs and could make it more costly and difficult for us to obtain the licensing rights to new scientific discoveries. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ESTABLISH, MAINTAIN AND RELY ON NEW COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS, THEN WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE OUR TECHNOLOGIES. To date, our operations have primarily focused on the preclinical development of most of our technologies, as well as conducting clinical trials for certain of our technologies. We currently expect that the continued development of our technologies will result in the initiation of additional clinical trials. We expect that these developments will require us to establish, maintain and rely on new collaborative relationships in order to successfully develop and commercialize our technologies. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Collaboration arrangements are complex to negotiate and time consuming to document. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish additional collaborations or other alternative arrangements, and the terms of any such collaboration or alternative arrangement may not be favorable to us. There is no certainty that: • We will be able to enter into such collaborations on economically feasible and otherwise acceptable terms and conditions; • Such collaborations will not require us to undertake substantial additional obligations or require us to devote additional resources beyond those we have identified at present; • Any of our collaborators will not breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their activities on time, thereby delaying the development or commercialization of the technology for which the parties are collaborating; and • The parties will not dispute the ownership rights to any technologies developed under such collaborations. 31 Table of Contents IF ONE OF OUR COLLABORATORS WERE TO CHANGE ITS STRATEGY OR THE FOCUS OF ITS DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION EFFORTS WITH RESPECT TO OUR RELATIONSHIP, THE SUCCESS OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES AND OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. There are a number of factors external to us that may change our collaborators’ strategy or focus with respect to our relationship with them, including: • The amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may devote to the product candidates; • Our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • We may be required to relinquish important rights such as marketing and distribution rights; • Should a collaborator fail to develop or commercialize one of our product candidates, we may not receive any future milestone payments and will not receive any royalties for the product candidate; • Business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; • A collaborator may not devote sufficient time and resources to any collaboration with us, which could prevent us from realizing the potential commercial benefits of that collaboration; • A collaborator may terminate their collaborations with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities; and • A collaborator could move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. If any of these occur, the development and commercialization of one or more drug candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. Risks Related to Competition WE ARE ENGAGED IN HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRIES DOMINATED BY LARGER, MORE EXPERIENCED AND BETTER CAPITALIZED COMPANIES. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, rapidly changing, and are dominated by larger, more experienced and better capitalized companies. Such greater experience and financial strength may enable them to bring their products to market sooner than us, thereby gaining the competitive advantage of being the first to market. Research on the causes of, and possible treatments for, diseases for which we are trying to develop therapeutic or diagnostic products are developing rapidly and there is a potential for extensive technological innovation in relatively short periods of time. Factors affecting our ability to successfully manage the technological changes occurring in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, as well as our ability to successfully compete, include: • Many of our potential competitors in the field of CNS research have significantly greater experience than we do in completing preclinical and clinical testing of new pharmaceutical products, the manufacturing and commercialization process, and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; • Many of our potential competitors have products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; • Many of our potential competitors may develop products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than any that we are developing; • Many of our potential competitors have collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions; 32 Table of Contents • The timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; • The availability and amount of third-party reimbursement; • The strength of our patent position; • Many of our potential competitors are in a stronger financial position than us, and are thus better able to finance the significant cost of developing, manufacturing and selling new products; and • Companies with established positions and prior experience in the pharmaceutical industry may be better able to develop and market products for the treatment of those diseases for which we are trying to develop products. To our knowledge, there is presently no approved diagnostic in the United States for PD and/or DLB. To our knowledge, there is only one company, GE Healthcare (formerly Nycomed/Amersham), that has marketed a diagnostic imaging agent for PD and DLB, DaTSCAN®. To date, GE Healthcare has obtained marketing approval in Europe. GE Healthcare has significantly greater infrastructure and financial resources than us, and if they obtained marketing approval in the United States they could significantly adversely affect our competitive position. Their established market presence, and greater financial strength in the European market may make it difficult for us to successfully market Altropane in Europe. To our knowledge, there is presently no approved therapeutic focused on the nerve repair of CNS disorders resulting from traumas, such as SCI. We are aware of other companies who are developing therapeutics to treat the CNS disorders resulting from SCI. These companies have significantly greater infrastructure and financial resources than us and if they were to able to obtain marketing approval for their products it could significantly adversely affect our competitive position. Given the challenges of achieving functional recovery in severe CNS disorders, we believe some of these competitors are developing devices or drugs that could potentially be used in conjunction with the therapeutics we are developing. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES MAY BE RENDERED NONCOMPETITIVE OR OBSOLETE. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products, or obtain more effective patent protection, than we are able to. Accordingly, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we are able to, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our product candidates will achieve initial market acceptance, and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our product candidates. Even if our product candidates achieve initial market acceptance, competitive products may render our products obsolete, noncompetitive or uneconomical. If our product candidates are rendered obsolete, we may not be able to recover the expenses of developing and commercializing those product candidates. IF THIRD-PARTY PAYORS DO NOT ADEQUATELY REIMBURSE OUR CUSTOMERS FOR ANY OF OUR PRODUCTS THAT ARE APPROVED FOR MARKETING, THEY MIGHT NOT BE ACCEPTED BY PHYSICIANS AND PATIENTS OR PURCHASED OR USED, AND OUR REVENUES AND PROFITS WILL NOT DEVELOP OR INCREASE. Substantially all biotechnology products are distributed to patients by physicians and hospitals, and in most cases, such patients rely on insurance coverage and reimbursement to pay for some or all of the cost of the product. In recent years, the continuing efforts of government and third party payors to contain or reduce health care costs have limited, and in certain cases prevented, physicians and patients from receiving insurance coverage and reimbursement for medical products, especially newer technologies. We believe that the efforts of governments and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare will continue to affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each governmental or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide to each prospective payor scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products. If we succeed in bringing any of our product candidates to market and third-party payors determine that the product is eligible for coverage; the third-party payors may nonetheless 33 Table of Contents establish and maintain price levels insufficient for us to realize a sufficient return on our investment in product development. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases. Our ability to generate adequate revenues and operating profits could be adversely affected if such limitations or restrictions are placed on the sale of our products. Specific risks associated with medical insurance coverage and reimbursement include: • Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products; • Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services; • Adequate insurance coverage and reimbursement may not be available to allow us to charge prices for products which are adequate for us to realize an appropriate return on our development costs. If adequate coverage and reimbursement are not provided for use of our products, the market acceptance of these products will be negatively affected; • Health maintenance organizations and other managed care companies may seek to negotiate substantial volume discounts for the sale of our products to their members thereby reducing our profit margins; and • In recent years, bills proposing comprehensive health care reform have been introduced in Congress that would potentially limit pharmaceutical prices and establish mandatory or voluntary refunds. It is uncertain if any legislative proposals will be adopted and how federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services will respond to any health care reforms. U.S. drug prices may be further constrained by possible Congressional action regarding drug reimportation into the United States. Some proposed legislation would allow the reimportation of approved drugs originally manufactured in the United States back into the United States from other countries where the drugs are sold at a lower price. Some governmental authorities in the U.S. are pursuing lawsuits to obtain expanded reimportation authority. Such legislation, regulations, or judicial decisions could reduce the prices we receive for any products that we may develop, negatively affecting our revenues and prospects for profitability. Even without legislation authorizing reimportation, increasing numbers of patients have been purchasing prescription drugs from Canadian and other non-United States sources, which has reduced the price received by pharmaceutical companies for their products. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the agency within the Department of Health and Human Services that administers Medicare and that is responsible for setting Medicare reimbursement payment rates and coverage policies for any product candidates that we commercialize, has authority to decline to cover particular drugs if it determines that they are not “reasonable and necessary” for Medicare beneficiaries or to cover them at lower rates to reflect budgetary constraints or to match previously approved reimbursement rates for products that CMS considers to be therapeutically comparable. Third-party payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and both Medicare and other third-party payors may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Moreover, marketing and promotion arrangements in the pharmaceutical industry are heavily regulated by CMS, and many marketing and promotional practices that are common in other industries are prohibited or restricted. These restrictions are often ambiguous and subject to conflicting interpretations, but carry severe administrative, civil, and criminal penalties for noncompliance. It may be costly for us to implement internal controls to facilitate compliance by our sales and marketing personnel. As a result of the trend towards managed healthcare in the United States, as well as legislative proposals to constrain the growth of federal healthcare program expenditures, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. 34 Table of Contents MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE LEGISLATION AND FUTURE LEGISLATIVE OR REGULATORY REFORM OF THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES PROFITABLY. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in the United States and other major healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years. In addition, ongoing initiatives in the United States have exerted and will continue to exert pressure on drug pricing. In some foreign countries, particularly countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. Significant changes in the healthcare system in the United States or elsewhere, including changes resulting from the implementation of the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation and adverse trends in third-party reimbursement programs, could limit our ability to raise capital and successfully commercialize our product candidates. In particular, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 established a new Medicare prescription drug benefit. The prescription drug program and future amendments or regulatory interpretations of the legislation could affect the prices we are able to charge for any products we develop and sell for use by Medicare beneficiaries and could also cause third-party payors other than the federal government, including the states under the Medicaid program, to discontinue coverage for any products we develop or to lower reimbursement amounts that they pay. The legislation changed the methodology used to calculate reimbursement for drugs that are administered in physicians’ offices in a manner intended to reduce the amount that is subject to reimbursement. In addition, the Medicare prescription drug benefit program that took effect in January 2006 directed the Secretary of Health and Human Services to contract with procurement organizations to purchase physician- administered drugs from manufacturers and provided physicians with the option to obtain drugs through these organizations as an alternative to purchasing from manufacturers, which some physicians may find advantageous. Because we have not received marketing approval or established a price for any product, it is difficult to predict how this new legislation will affect us, but the legislation generally is expected to constrain or reduce reimbursement for certain types of drugs. Further federal, state and foreign healthcare proposals and reforms are likely. While we cannot predict the legislative or regulatory proposals that will be adopted or what effect those proposals may have on our business, including the future reimbursement status of any of our product candidates, the announcement or adoption of such proposals could have an adverse effect on potential revenues from product candidates that we may successfully develop. WE HAVE NO MANUFACTURING CAPACITY AND LIMITED MARKETING INFRASTRUCTURE AND EXPECT TO BE HEAVILY DEPENDENT UPON THIRD PARTIES TO MANUFACTURE AND MARKET APPROVED PRODUCTS. We currently have no manufacturing facilities for either clinical trial or commercial quantities of any of our product candidates and currently have no plans to obtain additional facilities. To date, we have obtained the limited quantities of drug product required for preclinical and clinical trials from contract manufacturing companies. We intend to continue using contract manufacturing arrangements with experienced firms for the supply of material for both clinical trials and any eventual commercial sale. We will depend upon third parties to produce and deliver products in accordance with all FDA and other governmental regulations. We may not be able to contract with manufacturers who can fulfill our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness, or be able to find substitute manufacturers, if necessary. The failure by any third party to perform their obligations in a timely fashion and in accordance with the applicable regulations may delay clinical trials, the commercialization of products, and the ability to supply product for sale. In addition, any change in manufacturers could be costly because the commercial terms of any new arrangement could be less favorable and because the expenses relating to the transfer of necessary technology and processes could be significant. MDS Nordion has supplied Altropane to us since 2001. We are highly dependent upon MDS Nordion. Under the terms of our agreement, which currently expires on December 31, 2009, MDS Nordion manufactures the Altropane molecular imaging agent for our clinical trials. We do not presently have arrangements 35 Table of Contents with any other suppliers in the event that MDS Nordion is unable or unwilling to manufacture Altropane for us. We could encounter a significant delay before another supplier could manufacture Altropane for us due to the time required to establish a cGMP manufacturing process for Altropane. We hope to sign an extension with MDS Nordion before December 31, 2009 but there can be no assurance that we will be able to or that the terms will be acceptable. We do not have a manufacturing agreement relating to the commercial production of Altropane with MDS Nordion or any other manufacturer. We can provide no assurances that such an agreement will be executed on acceptable terms. We believe that BioAxone has not met the requirements of the Cethrin License. We are working with BioAxone to address deficiencies related to BioAxone’s production of Cethrin but there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. Any failure to address these deficiencies could delay future clinical development for Cethrin. Current development for Cethrin, including the manufacturing of additional Cethrin drug product, has been suspended until such time that we have resolved our dispute with BioAxone, secured additional working capital and/or a strategic partnership, and discussed the future development plan with the regulatory authorities. We currently have a limited marketing infrastructure. In order to earn a profit on any future product, we will be required to invest in the necessary sales and marketing infrastructure or enter into collaborations with third parties with respect to executing sales and marketing activities. We may encounter difficulty in negotiating sales and marketing collaborations with third parties on favorable terms for us. Most of the companies who can provide such services are financially stronger and more experienced in selling pharmaceutical products than we are. As a result, they may be in a position to negotiate an arrangement that is more favorable to them. We could experience significant delays in marketing any of our products if we are required to internally develop a sales and marketing organization or establish collaborations with a partner. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities. We have no experience in performing such activities and could incur significant costs in developing such a capability. USE OF THIRD PARTY MANUFACTURERS MAY INCREASE THE RISK THAT WE WILL NOT HAVE ADEQUATE SUPPLIES OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. Reliance on third party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including: • Reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • The possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party; and • The possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates and any approved products, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively. Our product candidates and any products that we successfully develop may compete with product candidates and products of third parties for access to manufacturing facilities. Our contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with cGMP regulations and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers will be able to comply with cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. We do not control compliance by our contract manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Failure of our third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our product candidates and products. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Employees and Growth IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN OUR KEY PERSONNEL AND/OR RECRUIT ADDITIONAL KEY PERSONNEL IN THE FUTURE, THEN WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OPERATE EFFECTIVELY. Our success depends significantly upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified scientific and management personnel who are able to formulate, implement and maintain the operations of a biotechnology company such as ours. We consider retaining Peter Savas, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mark Pykett, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Kenneth L. Rice, Jr., our Executive Vice President Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer to be key to our efforts to develop and commercialize our product candidates. The loss of the service of any of these key executives may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. We have entered into employment and non-compete agreements with Messrs. Savas, Pykett and Rice. We do not presently carry key person life insurance on any of our scientific or management personnel. We currently outsource most of our research and development, preclinical and clinical activities. If we decide to increase our internal research and development capabilities for any of our technologies, we may need to hire additional key management and scientific personnel to assist the limited number of employees that we currently employ. There is significant competition for such personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. If we fail to attract such personnel, it could have a significant negative effect on our ability to develop our technologies. Risks Related to our Stock OUR STOCK PRICE MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE AND CAN BE AFFECTED BY FACTORS UNRELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE. The market price of our common stock has in the past, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock market in general periodically experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in significant fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • Announcements in the scientific and research community; • Developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • Delay or failure in initiating, conducting, completing or analyzing clinical trials or problems relating to the design, conduct or results of these trials; • Announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of our product candidates or delays in the FDA review process; • Developments concerning our collaborations; • Publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; • Failure of any of our product candidates to achieve commercial success; • Our ability to manufacture products to commercial standards; • Conditions and publicity regarding the life sciences industry generally; • Regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • Changes in the structure of health care payment systems; 37 Table of Contents • Period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • Departure of our key personnel; • Future sales of our common stock; • Investors’ perceptions of us, our products, the economy and general market conditions; • Differences in actual financial results versus financial estimates by securities analysts and changes in those estimates; and • Litigation. OUR COMMON STOCK WILL LIKELY BE DELISTED FROM THE NASDAQ CAPITAL MARKET. On January 8, 2009, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) advising us that for the last 10 consecutive trading days, the market value of our listed securities was below the minimum $35 million requirement for continued inclusion under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3)(B). Pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(C), we were provided an initial period of 30 calendar days, or until February 9, 2009, to regain compliance. On January 15, 2009, the Company received further notification from NASDAQ that on January 13, 2009 NASDAQ filed an immediately effective rule change with the Securities and Exchange Commission to extend the compliance period from 30 to 90 calendar days. The Company may regain compliance if, at any time before April 8, 2009, the market value of our listed securities is $35 million or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. However, as of the close of trading on March 30, 2009, the market value of our listed securities was below $35 million, and had not been $35 million or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days since the NASDAQ notice was received, so we cannot regain compliance by April 8, 2009. Although after April 8, 2009 we will be permitted to appeal NASDAQ’s determination to delist our common stock to a NASDAQ Listings Qualifications Panel, we may elect not to make such an appeal, and even if such appeal were made it may not be successful, resulting in the delisting of our stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market could have an adverse effect on our business, including our ability to obtain future financing, and on the trading of our common stock. If a delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market were to occur, our common stock would trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. Such alternatives are generally considered to be less efficient markets, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 