Risk Factors History of losses, likelihood of future losses and dependence on additional financing Globetech’s principle business activities include the acquiring and developing of mineral properties and if warranted the processing of related mineral resources. The Company is currently pursuing and evaluating potential mineral properties and other business ventures. The Company does not have any positive cash flow from operations. The Company relies on private placements, exercise of stock options and warrants to raise funds from equity. The Company is subject to a number of significant uncertainties and risks including those described below and those described elsewhere in this Annual Report. These and other risk factors, may ultimately affect the Company in a manner and to a degree that cannot be foreseen at this time. Exploration and Mining Risks The business of exploration for minerals involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. The properties in which the Company has, or is acquiring an interest in have no known body of commercial ore. Unusual or unexpected formations, formation pressures, fires, power outages, labour disruptions, flooding, explorations, cave-ins, landslides, and the inability to obtain suitable adequate machinery, equipment, or labour are other risks involved in the operation of mines and the conduct of exploration programs. The Company has relied on and may continue to rely upon consultants and others for exploration and development expertise. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a major mineral deposit, no assurance can be given that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. The economics of developing mineral properties are affected by many factors including the cost of operations, variations in the grade of ore mined, fluctuations in metal markets, costs of processing equipment, and other such factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. The Company has no producing mines. Development Risks The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. Need for Additional Financing Due to the nature of the Company’s business, there can be no assurance that the Company will be profitable. For at least the last five years, the Company has incurred losses. The Company has paid no dividends on its shares since incorporation and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The only present source of funds available to the Company is through the sale of its equity shares. Even if the results of exploration are encouraging, the Company may not have sufficient funds to conduct the further exploration that may be necessary to determine whether or not a commercially mineable deposit exists. While the Company may generate additional working capital through further equity offerings or through the sale or possible syndication of its property, there is no assurance that any such funds will be available. If available, future equity financings may result in substantial dilu tion to purchasers under the offering. At present it is impossible to determine what amounts of additional funds, if any, may be required. The Company’s ability to maintain its interests in its mineral properties and to fund ongoing exploration costs will be entirely dependant in its ability to raise additional funds by equity financings. If the Company is unable to raise such funds it may suffer dilution or loss of interest in its mineral properties. Mineral Prices The mining industry in general is intensely competitive and there is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered, a profitable market may exist for the sale of minerals produced by the Company. Factors beyond the control of the Company affect the marketability of any substances discovered. Mineral prices, in particular gold prices, have fluctuated widely in recent years. The marketability of minerals is also affected by numerous other factors beyond the control of the Company. These other factors include government regulations relating to price, royalties, allowable production, and importing and exporting of minerals. Uninsured Risks In the course of exploration, development and production of mineral properties, certain risks, and in particular, unexpected or unusual geological operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, fires, flooding, and earthquakes may occur. The Company may decide not to take out insurance against such risks as a result of high premiums or other reasons. Should such liabilities arise, they could reduce or eliminate any future profitability and result in increasing costs and a decline in the value of the securities of the Company. Competition The Company competes against other companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities than itself for the acquisition of mineral concessions, claims, leases, and other mineral interests as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. Dependence on Key Management The Company’s development to date has depended, and in the future will continue to depend, on the efforts of key management. The Company does not have management contracts with any of the management of the Company. Environmental and Other Regulatory Requirements Mineral exploration activities require permits from various governmental authorities and are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, safety and other matters. Companies engaged in the exploration and development of mineral properties generally experience increased costs, and delays as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and permits. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all material laws and regulations which currently apply to its activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory of judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, instalment of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mineral exploration and development activities may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations and, in particular, environmental laws. Amendments to current laws, regulations, and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have material adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. Price Fluctuations: Share Price Volatility In recent years, securities markets have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly those considered development stage companies, have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. In particular, the share price of the Company’s common shares fluctuated from a high of US $0.89 to a low of US $0.14 within the twelve (12) months ended September 30, 2006. There can be no assurance that continual fluctuations in price will not occur. Permits and Licenses The operations of the Company may require licenses and permits for various governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out exploration, development and mining operations at its projects. Dividends All of the Company’s available funds will be invested to finance the growth of the Company’s business and therefore investors cannot expect to receive a dividend on the Company’s common shares in the foreseeable future. 