ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to extensive regulation that continues to change, and we are therefore exposed to a variety of risks. Our marketing and provision of telecommunication services is subject to significant regulation and may be adversely affected by regulatory developments at the federal, state and local levels. These regulations can, among other things, affect the way we conduct our business, the types of services we may offer, how we can market our services, the rates we are permitted to charge for our services, the availability to us of services and network access that we may need from others and the rates we must pay them for these services and the use of their networks, all of which may reduce the revenue we generate from our operating activities and the profitability of our business. These regulations can affect the level of regulation of other telecommunication services providers, including the incumbent local exchange carriers, or ILECs, and their ability to compete with us. These regulations also determine the level of contribution we must make to state and federal telecommunication subsidy programs. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, or if the regulations change in a manner adverse to us, including in any of the ways described in some of the following risk factors, our business and operating results may suffer. Our own local network is dependent upon our ability to obtain access to key network elements from some of our primary competitors. If we are unable to obtain these elements on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to offer our telecommunications services on a profitable basis, if at all. We will not be able to provide our local voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all, unless we are able to obtain key network elements from some of our primary competitors on acceptable terms. To offer local voice and data services in a market, we must connect our network with the network of the incumbent carrier in that market. This relationship is governed by an interconnection agreement between us and the incumbent carrier. We also must lease from these or other providers the telephone and data transmission lines we need to connect customers to our network. Our ability to provide our local voice and data services is dependent on existing regulations that require these elements to be provided to us on specified terms and on the compliance by our competitors with these provisioning regulations. In addition, because we rely on a limited number of suppliers for access to these network elements, we are vulnerable to the risk that we may not be able to renew or renegotiate our contracts with these suppliers on favorable terms or be able to obtain services under these contracts promptly. As a result of recent and pending regulatory changes, the incumbent carriers in the future may be able to increase significantly the rates they charge us for these network elements and services, or even decline to provide some of these network elements and services under certain circumstances. The rates that these or other providers may charge us under future interconnection, lease or resale agreements may not allow us to offer usage rates that are low enough to attract a sufficient number of network services customers or to operate at satisfactory profit margins. In addition, recent and pending regulatory developments and related judicial decisions have restricted the list of network components that incumbent carriers are required to make available on a nondiscriminatory basis to competitive carriers such as we. These developments or future similar developments could limit or terminate our access to the network components we need to provide local voice and data services and maintain and expand our own local network and could adversely affect our ability to grow our customer base and cost-effectively offer services in our existing and planned markets. 33 Our need to comply with extensive government regulatory requirements could increase our costs and slow our growth and ongoing changes in regulatory requirements could adversely affect our competitive position. We are subject to varying degrees of federal, state and local regulation. The FCC exercises jurisdiction over us with respect to interstate and international services. For example, we must comply with various federal regulations, such as the duty to contribute to universal service subsidies. State regulatory commissions exercise jurisdiction over us because we provide intrastate services. We are required to obtain regulatory authorization and/or file tariffs at state agencies in most of the states in which we operate. Constructing a network and selling telephone service is also subject to numerous local regulations such as building codes and licensing. Such regulations vary on a city by city and county by county basis. Failure to comply with federal and state reporting and regulatory requirements may result in fines or other penalties, including loss of certification to provide services. The ILECs with whom we compete generally have significantly greater resources than we do to pursue their regulatory and legislative agendas in the jurisdictions where we compete. State authorities may continue to relax restrictions on the ILECs through increased pricing flexibility for their services and other regulatory relief, which could have a material adverse effect on competitive service providers, including us. Future regulatory provisions may be less favorable to competitive service providers and more favorable to the ILECs. Changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative or judicial initiatives relating to the communications industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Increased regulation of marketing may hinder our ability to obtain new customers and may expose us to increased costs and certain liabilities. Our current and past direct and partner marketing efforts all require compliance with relevant federal and state regulations that govern the sale of telecommunication services. The FCC and many states have rules that prohibit switching a customer from one carrier to another without the customer’s express consent and specify how that consent must be obtained and verified. Most states also have consumer protection laws that further define the framework within which our marketing activities must be conducted. While directed at curbing abusive marketing practices, the design and enforcement of these rules can have the incidental effect of entrenching incumbent local exchange companies and hindering the growth of new competitors, such as our business. Our marketing efforts are carried out through a variety of marketing programs, including referrals from existing customers, outbound telemarketing, direct sales through independent contractors, broadcast media, online marketing initiatives and direct mail. In recent years, restrictions on the marketing of telecommunication services have become stricter, including the creation of national "do not call" databases, and the enforcement of the restrictions by federal and state regulatory authorities has intensified. Our marketing activities have subjected us to investigations or enforcement actions by government authorities. The constraints of federal and state regulation, as well as increased FCC, Federal Trade Commission and state enforcement attention, could limit the scope and the success of our marketing efforts and subject them to enforcement actions, which may have an adverse effect on us. Statutes and regulations designed to protect consumer privacy also may have the incidental effect of hindering the growth of newer telecommunication carriers such as we. For example, the FCC rules that restrict the use of "customer proprietary network information" (information that a carrier obtains about its customers through their use of the carrier’s services) may make it more difficult for us to market additional telecommunication services (such as local and wireless), as well as other services and products, to our existing customers. 34 We are in a highly competitive industry. We face significant competition in all of our service areas, both business and residential. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. Major participants in the industry regularly introduce new services and marketing activities. Competition in the telecommunication industry is based upon the ability to offer services at competitive prices, customer service, billing service and perceived quality. We face competition in all of our service areas, including voice, data, Internet and managed services. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Competition has led to lower prices for services. Our principal competitors are AT&T and BellSouth, the incumbent local exchange carriers in our networked markets. The incumbent local exchange carriers are well-capitalized, well-known companies with significantly greater resources than we. They have the capacity to "bundle" other services, such as local and wireless telephone services and high speed Internet access, with long distance telephone services. On March 5, 2006, AT&T and BellSouth announced that they had entered into an agreement to merge the companies. The proposed merger, which is subject to regulatory approval, will merge our two largest vendors into one entity. This merger, if completed, may have an adverse impact on our business. The incumbent local exchange carriers' name recognition in their existing markets, the established relationships that they have with their existing local service customers, their ability to take advantage of those relationships, and their ability to apply their significantly greater resources to influence applicable regulations in ways that are more favorable to them, also make it more difficult for us to compete with them. These companies as well as other incumbent local exchange carriers and the major carriers, including Verizon and Sprint Nextel, have targeted price plans at residential customers with significantly simplified rate structures and with bundles of local services with long distance, which may lower overall local and long distance prices. Competition is also fierce for the small- and medium-sized businesses that we also serve. Other competitive local exchange carriers, such as we, are competitors to our services. We are also experiencing increasing competition from wireless communication companies. Telecommunications carriers that offer both wireless and landline telecommunications services can offer bundled services that may be more attractive to our customers than landline offerings alone. Mobile wireless is also "cannibalizing" long distance minutes and local landline installations. In addition, several wireless competitors operate or plan to operate wireless telecommunications systems that encompass most of the United States, which could give them a significant competitive advantage. We currently do not offer wireless services in our bundle of services. We could also face additional competition from users of new wireless technologies including, but not limited to, currently unlicensed spectrum. Additionally, cable companies and companies using the cable lines for access to the customer, direct broadcast satellite companies, other DSL resellers, as well as technological substitutions such as Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, high-speed cable and broadband internet service and e-mail are competitors to our services. Many of these service providers are able to offer service at lower prices and have begun replacing the traditional land line telecommunications provider, such as we. If we are not able to compete successfully against our existing competitors and the new entrants into the telecommunication services market, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 35 We have increased and will continue to increase prices for those customers that we are unable to service over our own local network, which will result in increased customer attrition and associated loss of revenues. As a result of the changes in government regulation that effectively prevent us from profitably obtaining new customers in markets where we do not have our own local network, we have increased rates for our existing customers that are located in such markets and plan to continue increasing rates for these customers to reflect the increasing costs to us of providing telecommunication services to them. While these price increases may increase our current revenues from such customers, it will adversely affect our ability to retain such customers on our service and negatively affect our revenues over time. These price increases will also result in these customers seeking other providers for their telecommunications needs, further bolstering the dominance of the incumbent local exchange companies, with whom we compete, in these markets. We may be unable to replace those customers that leave our service. Purchasers of our residential local bundled product, which represent the large majority of our customers, are not obligated to purchase any minimum amount of our services, and can stop using our services at any time without penalty. Our customers may not continue to buy their local and/or long distance telephone service through us. If a significant portion of our customers were to decide to purchase telecommunications service from other service providers, we may not be able to replace these customers. Furthermore, we do not intend to seek to replace those customers that are outside the service area of our local networks. A high level of customer attrition is common in the telecommunications industry, and our financial results are affected by this attrition. Attrition is attributable to a variety of factors, including our termination of customers for nonpayment, changes in the economy, public impression of the quality of our services and the initiatives of existing and new competitors who, to attract new customers, may · implement national advertising campaigns, · utilize telemarketing programs, and · provide cash payments and other forms of incentives. While we cannot predict future pricing by our competitors, we anticipate aggressive price competition to continue. Lower prices offered by our competitors could contribute to an increase in our customer turnover, or churn. 36 We rely upon our local network, long-distance network, proprietary back office technology and information systems, and third parties to provide services to our customers. Interruption or failure of, or failure to manage, these systems increases the likelihood that we could incur losses or face other difficulties. Since we operate our own local and long distance switches, our network is subject to the risk of significant interruption. Fires or natural disasters, for example, could cause damage to our switching equipment or to transmission facilities connecting our switches. Any interruption in our services over our network caused by such damage could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In operating our network, we may be unable to connect and manage a large number of customers or a large quantity of traffic at high speeds. Any failure or perceived failure to achieve or maintain high-speed data transmission could significantly reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, computer viruses, break-ins, human error, natural disasters and other problems may disrupt our network. The network security and stability measures we implement may be circumvented in the future or otherwise fail to prevent the disruption of our services. The costs and resources required to eliminate computer viruses and other security problems may result in interruptions, delays or cessation of services to our customers, which could decrease demand, decrease our revenue and slow our planned expansion. We rely on our proprietary back office technology to support all aspects of our operations. Should our systems fail and we are unable to return them to operation in an acceptable timeframe or lose valuable customer data, our operational and financial condition will be adversely affected. If we are unable to integrate the back-office systems of our newly acquired companies, or to maintain or enhance our back office information systems, we may not be able to expand our revenue as quickly as we plan or to compete effectively. Sophisticated back office information systems are vital to our revenue growth and our ability to monitor costs, bill customers, initiate, implement and track customer orders and achieve operating efficiencies. We must select products and services offered by third-party vendors and efficiently integrate those products and services into our existing back office operations. We may not successfully implement these products, services and systems on a timely basis, and our systems may fail to perform as we expect. A failure or delay in the expected integration or performance of our back office systems could slow the pace of our expected revenue growth or harm our competitiveness by adversely affecting our service quality. We obtain services from various long distance and local carriers of telecommunications services for our customers. If these carriers fail to provide service or the provision of such services is interrupted, our customers would still hold us responsible and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We obtain the majority of our network equipment and software from third party suppliers. In addition, we rely on these suppliers for technical support and assistance. If any of our suppliers were to terminate our relationship or were to cease making the equipment we use, our ability to maintain, upgrade or expand our network could be impaired. Although we believe that we would be able to address our future equipment needs with equipment obtained from other suppliers, such equipment could prove to be incompatible with our network or only compatible with significant modifications and cost. If we are unable to obtain the equipment necessary to maintain our network, our ability to attract and retain customers and provide our services would be impaired and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 37 Difficulties presented by natural disaster, economic, political, legal, health, accounting and business factors could negatively affect our business. We provide services in various states across the United States. As a result, our business is subject to political and economic fluctuations in various states and geographic regions. In addition, we currently have physical assets and employees in sixteen states. The day-to-day operation of our business is highly dependent on the integrity of our communications and information technology systems, and on our ability to protect those systems from damage or interruptions by events beyond our control. Sabotage, computer viruses or other infiltration by third parties could damage our systems. Such events could disrupt our service, damage our facilities, damage our reputation, and cause us to lose customers, among other things, and could harm our results of operations. In addition, a catastrophic event could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Catastrophic events could include a terrorist attack on the United States, or a major earthquake, hurricane, fire, or similar event that affects our central offices, corporate offices, network operations center or network equipment. We believe that communications infrastructures, such as the ones on which we rely, may be vulnerable in the case of such an event and our markets, which are generally urban markets, may be more likely to be the targets of terrorist activity. If we fail to manage these operations successfully, our ability to service our clients and grow our business will be seriously impeded. We currently use soft-switching IP technology in lieu of traditional switching to offer local service in certain markets, which may result in operational failures and higher-than-anticipated costs. We currently use soft-switching IP technology in certain markets to reduce our costs of servicing our existing and new customers. We are initially implementing the technology in Grand Rapids, Michigan and Atlanta, Georgia and continue to evaluate the use of this technology in other markets. IP technology enables voice and data services to be carried using common transport elements, reducing the cost of providing services compared to traditional circuit switched technology. However, in contrast to the legacy circuit-switch technology used by the ILECs and other providers of communications services, our network is based on IP technology. This technology is much newer than that used by the legacy carriers and has not been used on active networks for as long. Although we believe that IP technology is well-designed for the provision of a broad array of communications services to large numbers of users, we have and could continue to encounter difficulties in adapting our IP-based network to meet the requirements of future technological advancements or to handle increasingly higher volumes of voice and data traffic as we grow our business or as our customers’ usage increases. Further, the newer IP technology may prove to be unreliable over a long period of time. Any failure of our network could cause us to lose market share and could materially harm our results of operations. We must continue to keep pace with technological changes in our industry in order to succeed. We face rapid and significant changes in technology. The telecommunications industry has changed significantly over the past several years and is continuing to evolve rapidly. Emerging technologies and services, such as VoIP applications, broadband services and advanced wireless offerings, could alter the economic conditions under which the telecommunications industry operates. New technologies also could lead to the development of new, more convenient and cost-effective services. In addition, the preferences and requirements of customers are rapidly changing. Our ability to retain current customers and attract new customers may be highly dependent on whether we choose the technologies that have the greatest customer acceptance, are able to adopt these new technologies and offer new services when appropriate, or can compete successfully against other service providers that use these new technologies. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. The development and offering of new services in response to new technologies or consumer demands may require us to increase our capital expenditures significantly. 38 We depend upon qualified personnel to implement our strategy and achieve our goals. The loss of qualified personnel or our inability to attract and retain key personnel could materially harm our business. Our success in implementing our strategy and achieving our goals will depend, in large part, upon the contributions of our qualified technical, marketing, programming, engineering, sales and management personnel. We also rely on independent contractors to market and sell our services. If we are unable to attract and retain experienced and motivated personnel, including a large and effective direct sales force, we may not be able to obtain new customers or sell sufficient amounts of service to execute our business plan. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. The loss of the services of qualified personnel, or the inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, may prevent us from achieving our goals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have "key man" life insurance on any of our officers or directors. The rapid development of our own network and the efforts to expand its capacity and our customer base places a significant strain on our management, operational, financial and information management systems and controls, personnel and other resources. Failure to implement and improve the operational and financial information management systems and controls necessary to support this growth and to maintain our other resources at a pace consistent with industry changes and the growth of our business could cause customers to switch to other telecommunication service providers, which would have a material adverse effect on us. Failure to provide adequate service to our customers could have a negative effect on our financial condition. We are focused upon providing our customers with quality service. We believe that satisfactorily servicing our customers will encourage customers to remain on our service and positively separate us from our competitors. If we are unable to provide adequate service to our customers, including customer service, we could experience greater attrition of our existing customers and a decrease in new customers, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. If we are unable to successfully continue our acquisition strategy, our growth may suffer. In the past twelve months, we have relied on our acquisitions of other companies to supplement our internal expansion of our network and customer base and a significant portion of our current network assets and lines on net have been added through these acquisitions. In that period, we have acquired customers and assets through our acquisitions of LDMI and NTC. In connection with these acquisitions, we expended an aggregate of approximately $39 million of our cash-on-hand and issued 1.8 million shares of our common stock. While we intend, as part of our growth strategy, to actively seek to identify and pursue further acquisitions on acceptable terms, which could include the payment of cash or the issuance of shares of our stock, we do not know whether we will be able to make such acquisitions or the size, timing or terms thereof. If we are unable to continue to identify, fund and complete acquisitions on acceptable terms, our ability to implement our growth strategy and continue the expansion of our network and customer base could be significantly hampered, with potentially adverse consequences to our competitive flexibility, revenues and operating results. 39 We may not be successful with the integration of our acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to supplement internal expansion with targeted acquisitions. We may not be successful in integrating any newly acquired businesses into our operations. The integration of acquired businesses poses a number of significant risks, including the following: · we may be unable to retain skilled management, technical, sales and back office personnel of acquired companies; · customers of acquired companies may resist our marketing programs, pricing levels or services; · we may not successfully incorporate the services of acquired businesses into our package of service offerings; · the attention we can devote to any one acquired company may be restricted by our allocation of limited management resources among various integration efforts; · our acquisition and integration activities may disrupt our ongoing business activities; · we may be unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout all of our acquired companies; and · our relationships with vendors may be adversely affected. We have never attempted to integrate operating platforms of this scale, or with the necessity to serve business customers, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in integrating these customers or be able to enhance these systems on a timely basis. Even if acquired companies eventually contribute to an increase in our profitability, the acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results in the short term. Our operating results may decrease as a result of transaction-related expenses we record for the period in which we complete an acquisition. Our operating results may be further reduced by the higher operating and administrative expenses we may incur in the periods immediately preceding and following an acquisition as we seek to integrate the acquired business into our operations. Furthermore, companies that we may acquire may not have adequate controls and procedures, including internal control over financial reporting, or may have control systems that are not compatible with ours. We will be required to integrate these companies with our disclosure and financial reporting controls and procedures. Our failure to do so in a timely manner could have the adverse results discussed below under the heading, “There are risks with our financial reporting.” 40 We may be required to seek financing to support our ongoing efforts to implement our growth strategy through acquisitions. We have to date been meeting our ongoing cash requirements (including for the conduct of our operations, acquisitions and capital expenditures) from our cash-on-hand and from cash generated from operations. However, our continued growth through further acquisitions, may require that we seek alternative sources of funding. While we believe that we would have access to financing in the public or private markets, there can be no assurance as to the timing, amounts, terms or conditions of any such financing or whether it could be obtained on terms acceptable to us. The terms of any debt financing will likely include restrictive covenants that could limit our operating flexibility and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business, any of which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. There are risks with our financial reporting. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past and additional material weaknesses could be identified in the future. These control deficiencies resulted in the restatement of our financial statements for each of the quarters in 2003 and year ended December 31, 2003, and the first, second and third quarters of 2004 and certain audit adjustments to the fourth quarter 2004 financial statements. Any failure by us to maintain or implement required new or improved controls or to integrate any newly acquired companies with such controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation or such integration, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements, including errors that would not be prevented or detected, which in turn could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 41 ITEM 