Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, that could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by the continued worldwide economic slowdown and uncertainties in the marketplace. Since the second half of 2008, economic conditions worldwide and in the United States have experienced a general deterioration, resulting in slower economic activity and a highly uncertain recovery, decreased consumer confidence and retail spending, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and generally adverse business conditions. These conditions make it difficult for our wireless carrier and OEM customers and their end users to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and capital expenditures, which could cause them to slow spending on our products and services. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the current economic slowdown or the emerging economic recovery, or to what extent they will continue to affect us. If the economy, consumer spending or the markets in which we operate do not continue at their present levels or deteriorate, we may need to record charges related to restructuring costs and the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below analyst or investor expectations, which could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including the following: • the gain or loss of a key customer; • the size and timing of orders from and shipments to our major customers; • the size and timing of any return product requests for our products; • our ability to maintain or increase gross margins; • variations in our sales channels or the mix of our product sales; • our ability to anticipate market needs and to identify, develop, complete, introduce, market and produce new products and technologies in a timely manner to address those needs; • the availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effect on sales and pricing of our products; • acquisitions; • the effect of new and emerging technologies; • the timing of acceptance of new mobile services by users of our customers’ services; • deferrals of orders by our customers in anticipation of new products, applications, product enhancements or operating systems; and 11 Table of Contents • general economic and market conditions. We have difficulty predicting the volume and timing of orders. In any given quarter, our sales have involved, and we expect will continue to involve, large financial commitments from a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the cancellation or deferral of even a small number of orders would reduce our revenues, which would adversely affect our quarterly financial performance. Also, we have often booked a large amount of our sales in the last month of the quarter and often in the last week of that month. Accordingly, delays in the closing of sales near the end of a quarter could cause quarterly revenues to fall substantially short of anticipated levels. Significant sales may also occur earlier than expected, which could cause operating results for later quarters to compare unfavorably with operating results from earlier quarters. A large portion of our operating expenses, including rent, depreciation and amortization is fixed and difficult to reduce or change. Accordingly, if our total revenue does not meet our expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall in revenue. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. Our total revenues currently depend on a small number of products and customers, so our operating results are vulnerable to unexpected shifts in demand. A substantial majority of our total revenue is derived from sales of our wireless connectivity and security software products. Although our strategy is to continue to introduce new products, these efforts may not reduce the extent to which our total revenues are dependent on a small number of products in these market sectors. Rapid shifts in the markets for these products and consumer habits, changes in demand by end-users and changes in underlying technology present both opportunities and risks for our business. Factors which could affect our business include the rate of adoption of the 4G networking standard by wireless carriers and handset manufacturers, and changes in consumer demand for PC networking due to the adoption of Smartphones and tablet computing. If our products fail to remain current with and useful to new and emerging markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few vertical markets, such as wireless carriers and handset manufacturers. In order to sustain and grow our business, we must continue to sell our software products into these vertical markets. Shifts in the dynamics of these vertical markets, such as new product introductions by our competitors, could seriously harm our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. To increase our sales outside our core vertical markets, for example to large enterprises, requires us to devote time and resources to hire and train sales employees familiar with those industries. Even if we are successful in hiring and training sales teams, customers in other vertical markets may not need or sufficiently value our current products or new product introductions. In addition, because we sell primarily to large carriers and OEMs, there are a limited number of actual and potential customers for our products, resulting in customer concentration for sales of our products and services. For the year ended December 31, 2010, one customer, Verizon Wireless, comprised 40.1% of our total revenues. Two other customers (Sprint and AT&T) individually comprised of at least 10% of our total revenues. Because of our customer concentration, our largest customers may have significant pricing power over us. Furthermore, a substantial decrease in sales to any of our largest customers could materially affect our revenues and profitability. Additionally, these customers are not the end-users of our products. If any of these customers’ efforts to market their products which incorporate our software are unsuccessful in the marketplace, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Competition within our target markets is intense and includes numerous established competitors and new entrants, which could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We operate in markets that are extremely competitive and subject to rapid changes in technology. A number of established software companies, such as Microsoft Corporation, Google Inc. and Apple Inc. pose a significant competitive threat to us because their handset operating systems may include some capabilities now provided by certain of our OEM and retail software products. If handset manufacturers and carriers are satisfied relying on the capabilities of systems using Windows, Android or iPhone OS, or other hardware or operating systems, sales of our products are likely to decline. In addition, because there are low barriers to entry into the software markets in which we participate and may participate in the future, we expect significant competition from both established and emerging software companies in the future, both domestic and international. In fact, our growth opportunities in new product markets could be limited to the extent established and emerging software companies enter or have entered those markets. Furthermore, our existing and potential OEM customers may acquire or develop products that compete directly with our products. Many of our other current and prospective competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly than we to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Announcements of competing products by competitors could result in the cancellation of orders by customers in anticipation of the introduction of such new products. In addition, some of our competitors currently make complementary products that are sold separately. Such competitors could decide to enhance their competitive position by bundling their products to attract customers seeking integrated, cost-effective software applications. Some competitors have a retail emphasis and offer OEM products with a reduced set of features. The opportunity for retail upgrade sales may induce these and other competitors to make OEM products available at their own cost or even at a loss. We also expect competition to increase as a result of software industry consolidations, which may lead to the creation of additional large and well-financed competitors. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Acquisitions of companies or technologies may disrupt our business and divert management attention and cause our current operations to suffer. We have historically made targeted acquisitions of smaller companies with important technology and expect to continue to do so in the future. As part of any acquisition, we will be required to assimilate the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and train, retain and motivate key personnel from the acquired businesses. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies if we fail in these efforts. Similarly, acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention from our company’s day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers and strategic partners. Acquisitions may also subject us to liabilities and risks that are not known or identifiable at the time of the acquisition. We may also have to incur debt or issue equity securities in order to finance future acquisitions. Our financial condition could be harmed to the extent we incur substantial debt or use significant amounts of our cash resources in acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities for any acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, we expect our profitability could be adversely affected because of acquisition-related accounting costs, write offs, amortization expenses, and charges related to acquired intangible assets. In consummating acquisitions, we are also subject to risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have had limited or no prior experience. If we are unable to fully integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies within existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of acquisitions. We are entering new, emerging markets in which we have limited experience; if these markets do not develop or we are unable to otherwise succeed in them, our revenues will suffer and the price of our common stock will likely decline. 13 Table of Contents Our recent and planned product introductions to support new higher speed networking and 4G technologies such as HSPA+, LTE and WiMAX network protocols have allowed us to enter new markets. A viable market for these products may not develop or be sustainable, and we may face intense competition in these markets. In addition, our success in these markets depends on our carrier customers’ ability to successfully introduce new mobile services enabled by our products and our ability to broaden our carrier customer base, which we believe will be difficult and time-consuming. If the expected benefits from entering new markets do not materialize our revenues will suffer and the price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, to the extent we enter new markets through acquisitions of companies or technologies, our financial condition could be harmed or our stockholders could suffer dilution without a corresponding benefit to our company if we do not realize expected benefits of entering such new markets. If the adoption of and investments in new technologies and services grows more slowly than anticipated in our product planning and development, our operating results, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. If the adoption of and investments in new networking and 4G technologies and services does not grow or grows more slowly than anticipated, we will not obtain the anticipated returns from our planning and development investments. For example, our Device Management Suite of products allows our customers to update mobile devices from a home office and incorporates technology that provides a mechanism to allow for efficient firmware updates for mobile devices. In addition, we have introduced new high-speed networking and 4G products, but the pace of the market introduction of such technologies is uncertain. Future sales and any future profits from these and related products are substantially dependent upon the acceptance and use of these new technologies, and on the continued adoption and use of mobile data services by end-users. Many of our customers and other communications service providers have made and continue to make major investments in next generation networks that are intended to support more complex applications. If communications service providers delay their deployment of networks or fail to deploy such networks successfully, demand for our products could decline, which would adversely affect our revenues. Also, to the extent we devote substantial resources and incur significant expenses to enable our products to be interoperable with new networks that have failed or have been delayed or not deployed, our operating results, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. Our growth depends in part on our customers’ ability and willingness to promote services and attract and retain new customers or achieve other goals outside of our control. We sell our products for use on handheld devices primarily through our carrier customers. Losing the support of these customers may limit our ability to compete in existing and potential markets and could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, the success of these customers and their ability and willingness to market services supported by our products are critical to our future success. Our ability to generate revenues from sales of our software is also constrained by our carrier customers’ ability to attract and retain customers. We have no input into or influence upon their marketing efforts and sales and customer retention activities. If our carrier customers, particularly our largest customer, Verizon Wireless, fail to maintain or grow demand for their services, revenues or revenue growth from our products designed for use on mobile devices will decline and our results of operations will suffer. Our operating income may continue to change due to shifts in our sales mix and increased spending on our research and development and infrastructure. Our operating income can change quarter to quarter and year to year due to a change in our sales mix and the timing of our continued investments in research and development and infrastructure. Operating income as a percentage of revenues has ranged from 2.8% in 2008 to 10.4% in 2009 to 14.1% in 2010. We continue to invest in research and development which is the lifeline of our technology portfolio. In addition we continue to invest in our infrastructure with facility expansions in Aliso Viejo, California and a 14 Table of Contents new engineering design and data center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The timing of these additional expenses can vary significantly quarter to quarter and even from year to year. Our products may contain undetected software defects, which could negatively affect our revenues. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects. In the past, we have discovered software defects in certain of our products and have experienced delayed or lost revenues during the period it took to correct these problems. Although we and our OEM customers test our products, it is possible that errors may be found or occur in our new or existing products after we have commenced commercial shipment of those products. Defects, whether actual or perceived, could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenues, product returns, a delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position or claims against us by customers. Any such problems could be costly to remedy and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product sales, which could cause us to lose existing or prospective customers and could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, some of our software contains open source components that are licensed under the GNU General Public License and similar open source licenses. These components may contain undetected defects or incompatibilities, may cause us to lose control over the development of portions of our software code, and may expose us to claims of infringement if these components are, or incorporate, infringing materials, the licenses are not enforceable or are modified to become incompatible with other open source licenses, or exposure to misappropriation claims if these components include unauthorized materials from a third party. Technology and customer needs change rapidly in our market, which could render our products obsolete and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards. We will also need to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products to meet our target markets’ changing demands, keep up with evolving industry standards, including changes in the Microsoft and Google operating systems with which our products are designed to be compatible, and to promote those products successfully. The communications and utilities software markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and short product life cycles. Any of these factors could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods as a result of the complexities inherent in today’s computing environments and the performance demanded by customers and called for by evolving wireless networking technologies. If our target markets do not develop as we anticipate, our products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, or we are unable to develop new versions of our software products that can operate on future wireless networks and PC and mobile device operating systems and interoperate with other popular applications, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Regulations affecting our customers and us and future regulations, to which they or we may become subject to, may harm our business. Certain of our customers in the communications industry are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, which could have an indirect effect on our business. In addition, the United States telecommunications industry has been subject to continuing deregulation since 1984. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation or deregulation might occur or the effect regulation or deregulation may have on demand for our products from customers in the communications industry. Demand for our products may be indirectly affected by regulations imposed upon potential users of those products, which may increase our costs and expenses. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, which could negatively impact our revenues. 15 Table of Contents Our success is dependent upon our software code base, our programming methodologies and other intellectual properties and proprietary rights. In order to protect our proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements, patents, and copyright and trademark law. We currently own U.S. trademark registrations for certain of our trademarks and U.S. patents for certain of our technologies. However, these measures afford us only limited protection. Furthermore, we rely primarily on “shrink wrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Accordingly, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain our rights without our authorization. It is also possible that third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours. It may be difficult for us to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement as the number of trademarks, patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights asserted by companies in our industry grows and the coverage of these patents and other rights and the functionality of software products increasingly overlap. From time to time, we have received communications from third parties asserting that our trade name or features, content, or trademarks of certain of our products infringe upon intellectual property rights held by such third parties. We have also received correspondence from third parties separately asserting that our products may infringe on certain patents held by each of the parties. Although we are not aware that any of our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others, third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to our current or future products. Additionally, our customer agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement claims made by third parties involving our intellectual property embedded in their products. Infringement claims, whether with or without merit, could result in time-consuming and costly litigation, divert the attention of our management, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties. If we are required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, they may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Unfavorable royalty or licensing agreements could seriously impair our ability to market our products. If we are unable to retain key personnel, the loss of their services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our senior management and other key technical and consulting personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our key employees that govern the length of their service. The loss of the services of our key employees would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, particularly highly skilled engineers involved in the ongoing research and development required to develop and enhance our products. Competition for these employees remains high and employee retention is a common problem in our industry. Our inability to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel that are essential to our product development, marketing, service and support teams may limit the rate at which we can generate revenue, develop new products or product enhancements and generally would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with mobile device manufacturers, market acceptance of our products and our profitability, may suffer. Most of our strategic relationships with mobile device manufacturers are not subject to written contract, but rather are in the form of informal working relationships. We believe these relationships are valuable to our success. In particular, these relationships provide us with insights into product development and emerging technologies, which allows us to keep abreast of, or anticipate, market trends and helps us serve our current and prospective customers. Because these relationships are not typically governed by written agreements, there is no obligation for many of our partners to continue working with us. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic relationships with mobile device manufacturers or if we fail to enter into additional strategic relationships or the parties with whom we have strategic relationships favor one of our competitors, our ability to provide products that meet our current and prospective customers’ needs could 16 Table of Contents be compromised and our reputation and future revenue prospects could suffer. For example, if our software does not function well with a popular mobile device because we have not maintained a relationship with its manufacturer, carriers seeking to provide that device to their respective customers could choose a competitor’s software over ours or develop their own. Even if we succeed in establishing these relationships, they may not result in additional customers or revenues. We may raise additional capital through the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities or by borrowing money, in order to meet our capital needs. Additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us to allow us to meet our capital needs. We believe that the cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to meet our capital needs for at least the next twelve months. However, it is possible that we may need or choose to obtain additional financing to fund our activities in the future. We could raise these funds by selling more stock to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations or other business activities significantly or to obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets. We have on file with the SEC a shelf Form S-3 to sell from time to time up to 4,000,000 shares of our common stock in one or more offerings in amounts, at prices and on the terms that we will determine at the time of offering. In addition, we have on file with the SEC a shelf Form S-4 to sell from time to time up to 1,000,000 shares of our common stock in connection with our future acquisitions of other businesses, assets or securities. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities (whether in a public offering or private placement), the ownership percentages of existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. We currently have no established line of credit or other business borrowing facility in place. It is possible that our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. The amount of capital that we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: • the market acceptance of our products; • the levels of promotion and advertising that will be required to launch our products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace; • our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans and product and technology roadmaps; • the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; • capital improvements to new and existing facilities; • technological advances; • our competitors’ response to our products; and • our relationships with suppliers and customers. In addition, we may raise additional capital to accommodate planned growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected as a result of legal, business and economic risks specific to international operations. In recent years, our revenues derived from sales to customers outside the U.S. have not been material. Our revenues derived from such sales can vary from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also frequently ship products to our domestic customers’ international manufacturing divisions and 17 Table of Contents subcontractors. In the future, we may expand these international business activities. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including: • general political, social and economic instability; • trade restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls; • exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and any other country in which we operate; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • foreign technical standards; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • difficulties in securing and servicing international customers; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and any imposition of currency exchange controls; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. These conditions may increase our cost of doing business. Moreover, as our customers are adversely affected by these conditions, our business with them may be disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 