Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, that could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. 10 We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales of a small number of products to Sprint and Verizon Wireless, so our revenues and operating results are highly vulnerable to shifts in demand and may continue to decline. In our Wireless business segment, we sell primarily to large carriers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), so there are a limited number of actual and potential customers for our products, resulting in customer concentration for sales of our products and services. For the year ended December 31, 2013, sales to Sprint and Verizon Wireless comprised 53.1% and 13.0% of our total revenues, respectively. Because of our customer concentration, these carriers and other large customers may have significant pricing power over us, and any material decrease in sales to any of them would materially affect our revenues and profitability. Additionally, carriers and OEMs are not the end-users of our products. If any of their efforts to market products and services incorporating our software are unsuccessful in the marketplace, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. On July 10, 2013, Softbank and Sprint Nextel completed a merger which could further intensify the competitive pressures that we face. Furthermore, the uncertainties created by this merger could cause it to delay or cancel planned purchases of our products and services, particularly if there are proposed changes or uncertainties in the future management, product offerings and technical specifications of Sprint and its product portfolio. We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few vertical markets, such as wireless carriers and handset manufacturers. In order to sustain and grow our business, we must continue to sell our software products into these vertical markets. Shifts in the dynamics of these vertical markets, such as new product introductions by our competitors, could materially harm our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. To increase our sales outside our core vertical markets, for example to large enterprises, requires us to devote time and resources to hire and train sales employees familiar with those industries. Even if we are successful in hiring and training sales teams, customers in other vertical markets may not need or sufficiently value our current products or new product introductions. We announced a restructuring plan in July 2013 and we may take additional restructuring actions in the future that would result in additional charges, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations in the period the action is taken. On July 25, 2013, the Board of Directors approved a new restructuring plan which was implemented primarily during the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2013. This restructuring plan involved changes in management structure in order to streamline the organization, facility consolidations/closures, and headcount reductions that amounted to approximately 26% of the Company’s worldwide workforce. This resulted in one-time restructuring charges of approximately $5.6 million that was recorded in the three month period ended September 30, 2013. If the demand for our legacy and new products does not increase, we may need to take additional restructuring actions in future quarters, although we currently do not have any intention to do so. If future restructuring actions are taken, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in the period that the action is taken. Our restructuring plan includes organizational changes and facility closures and consolidations, which could have a negative impact on our operations and customers. Our recently announced restructuring plan involves a transfer of significant duties and responsibilities from employees who are being terminated and facilities which are being closed or consolidated. Such duties and responsibilities will be transferred to employees and facilities which we are retaining. If the transfer of duties and responsibilities, including underlying product knowledge and expertise of our existing product lines, is not executed successfully and seamlessly, this could adversely affect our levels of customer service and satisfaction, which could adversely affect our business and future revenues. In addition, the restructuring may cause us future difficulties in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly in competitive specialties. 11 If we fail to meet the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock would likely be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, which could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and cause our trading price to decline. Our common stock is currently listed for quotation on the NASDAQ Global Market. We are required to meet specified financial requirements in order to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. One such requirement is that we maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for our common stock. NASDAQ notified the Company on November 7, 2013 that the bid price of the Company’s common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement over the previous 30 consecutive business days and, as a result, the Company was not in compliance with Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). On November 25, 2013, NASDAQ notified the Company that the closing bid price of its common stock had been at $1.00 per share or greater for at least 10 consecutive business days. Accordingly, NASDAQ confirmed to the Company that it had regained compliance with the minimum bid price rule and the matter was now closed. Our common stock price could again fall below the $1.00 per share threshold for 30 consecutive business days, in which case we would receive another deficiency letter. If we fail to satisfy the NASDAQ Global Market’s continued listing requirements, our common stock would likely be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, in which case our stock may trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market for a period of time, or our stock may trade on the OTC Bulletin Board. Any potential delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market would likely result in decreased liquidity and increased volatility of our common stock, and could cause our trading price to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below analyst or investor expectations, which could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including the following: • the gain or loss of a key customer; • the size and timing of orders from and shipments to our major customers; • the size and timing of any product return requests; • our ability to maintain or increase gross margins; • variations in our sales channels or the mix of our product sales; • our ability to anticipate market needs and to identify, develop, complete, introduce, market and produce new products and technologies in a timely manner to address those needs; • the availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effect on sales and pricing of our products; • acquisitions; • the effect of new and emerging technologies; • the timing of acceptance of new mobile services by users of our customers’ services; • deferrals of orders by our customers in anticipation of new products, applications, product enhancements or operating systems; and • general economic and market conditions. We have difficulty predicting the volume and timing of orders. In any given quarter, our sales have involved, and we expect will continue to involve, large financial commitments from a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the cancellation or deferral of even a small number of orders would 12 reduce our revenues, which would adversely affect our quarterly financial performance. Also, we have often booked a large amount of our sales in the last month of the quarter and often in the last week of that month. Accordingly, delays in the closing of sales near the end of a quarter could cause quarterly revenues to fall substantially short of anticipated levels. Significant sales may also occur earlier than expected, which could cause operating results for later quarters to compare unfavorably with operating results from earlier quarters. Future orders may come from new customers, or from existing customers for new products. The sales cycles may be greater than what we have experienced in the past, increasing the difficulty to predict quarterly revenues. Because we sell primarily to large carriers and OEM customers, we have no direct relationship with most end-users of our products. This indirect relationship delays feedback and blurs signals of change in the quick-to-evolve wireless ecosystem, and is one of the reasons we have difficulty predicting demand. A large portion of our operating expenses, including rent, depreciation and amortization, is fixed and difficult to reduce or change. Accordingly, if our total revenue does not meet our expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall in revenue. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. We may have further impairments of long-lived assets if our business does not improve and our stock price declines which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company assesses potential impairment to its long-lived assets as required by FASB ASC Topic No. 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived assets exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the related asset and a charge to operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded a charge for impairment of long-lived assets of $1.0 million as a result of our 2013 restructuring. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a charge for impairment of long-lived assets of $18.7 million ($13.4 million on intangible assets and $5.3 million on fixed assets) due, in part, to continued declines in our revenues and profitability and our continued depressed stock price. In future years, we may be required to take further charges for impairment of equipment and improvements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Technology and customer needs change rapidly in our market, which could render our products obsolete and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards. We will also need to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products to meet our target markets’ changing demands, keep up with evolving industry standards, including changes in the Microsoft, Google and Apple operating systems with which our products are designed to be compatible, and to promote those products successfully. The communications and utilities software markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and short product life cycles. In addition, the technology we market, which has been sold as software in the past, can be integrated at the chipset level by the leading mobile chipset manufacturers. Any of these factors could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, new products and product enhancements can require long development and 13 testing periods as a result of the complexities inherent in today’s computing environments and the performance demanded by customers and called for by evolving wireless networking technologies. If our target markets do not develop as we anticipate, our products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, or we are unable to develop new versions of our software products that can operate on future wireless networks and PC and mobile device operating systems and interoperate with other popular applications, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Competition within our target markets is intense and includes numerous established competitors and new entrants, which could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. We operate in markets that are extremely competitive and subject to rapid changes in technology. Because there are low barriers to entry into the software markets in which we participate and may participate in the future, we expect significant competition to continue from both established and emerging software companies in the future, both domestic and international. In fact, our growth opportunities in new product markets could be limited to the extent established and emerging software companies enter or have entered those markets. Furthermore, our existing and potential OEM customers may acquire or develop products that compete directly with our products. Many of our other current and prospective competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Announcements of competing products by competitors could result in the cancellation of orders by customers in anticipation of the introduction of such new products. In addition, some of our competitors are currently making complementary products that are sold separately. Such competitors could decide to enhance their competitive position by bundling their products to attract customers seeking integrated, cost-effective software applications. Some competitors have a retail emphasis and offer OEM products with a reduced set of features. The opportunity for retail upgrade sales may induce these and other competitors to make OEM products available at their own cost or even at a loss. We also expect competition to increase as a result of software industry consolidations, which may lead to the creation of additional large and well-financed competitors. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. We are entering new, emerging markets in which we have limited experience; if these markets do not develop or we are unable to otherwise succeed in them, our revenues will suffer and the price of our common stock will likely decline. Our recent and planned product introductions to support new higher speed networking and 4G technologies have allowed us to enter new markets. A viable market for these products may not develop or be sustainable, and we may face intense competition in these markets. In addition, our success in these markets depends on our carrier customers’ ability to successfully introduce new mobile services enabled by our products and our ability to broaden our carrier customer base, which we believe will be difficult and time-consuming. If the expected benefits from entering new markets do not materialize, our revenues will suffer and the price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, to the extent we enter new markets through acquisitions of companies or technologies, our financial condition could be harmed or our stockholders could suffer dilution without a corresponding benefit to our company if we do not realize expected benefits of entering such new markets. 14 If the adoption of and investments in new technologies and services grows more slowly than anticipated in our product planning and development, our operating results, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. If the adoption of and investments in new networking and 4G technologies and services does not grow or grows more slowly than anticipated, we will not obtain the anticipated returns from our planning and development investments. For example, our Enterprise products allow our customers to update mobile devices from a home office and incorporate technology that provides a mechanism to allow for efficient firmware updates for mobile devices. In addition, we have introduced new high-speed networking and 4G products, but the pace of the market introduction of such technologies is uncertain. Future sales and any future profits from these and related products are substantially dependent upon the acceptance and use of these new technologies, and on the continued adoption and use of mobile data services by end-users. Many of our customers and other communications service providers have made and continue to make major investments in next generation networks that are intended to support more complex applications. If communications service providers delay their deployment of networks or fail to deploy such networks successfully, demand for our products could decline, which would adversely affect our revenues. Also, to the extent we devote substantial resources and incur significant expenses to enable our products to be interoperable with new networks that have failed or have been delayed or not deployed, our operating results, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. If we are unable to retain key personnel, the loss of their services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our senior management and other key technical and consulting personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our key employees that govern the length of their service. The loss of the services of our key employees would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, particularly highly skilled engineers involved in the ongoing research and development required to develop and enhance our products. Competition for these employees remains high and employee retention is a common problem in our industry. Our inability to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel that are essential to our product development, marketing, service and support teams may limit the rate at which we can generate revenue, develop new products or product enhancements and generally would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely directly and indirectly on third-party intellectual property and licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Many of the Company’s products and services include third-party intellectual property, which requires licenses from those third parties directly to us or to unrelated companies which provide us with sublicenses and/or execution of services for the operation of our business. These products and services include our wireless suite of products as well as our productivity and graphics products. The Company has historically been able to obtain such licenses on reasonable terms. There is however no assurance that in the future the necessary licenses could be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company or our third party service providers are unable to obtain or renew critical licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to terminate or curtail our products and services which rely on such intellectual property and our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. If we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with mobile device manufacturers, wireless carriers and network infrastructure manufacturers, market acceptance of our products and our profitability may suffer. Most of our strategic relationships with mobile device manufacturers are not subject to written contract, but rather are in the form of informal working relationships. We believe these relationships are valuable to our success. In particular, these relationships provide us with insights into product development and emerging technologies, which allows us to keep abreast of, or anticipate, market trends and helps us serve our current and prospective customers. Because these relationships are not typically governed by written agreements, there is no obligation for many of our partners to continue working with us. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic relationships with mobile device manufacturers or if we fail to enter into additional strategic relationships or the parties with whom we have strategic relationships favor one of our 15 competitors, our ability to provide products that meet our current and prospective customers’ needs could be compromised and our reputation and future revenue prospects could suffer. For example, if our software does not function well with a popular mobile device because we have not maintained a relationship with its manufacturer, carriers seeking to provide that device to their respective customers could choose a competitor’s software over ours or develop their own. Even if we succeed in establishing these relationships, they may not result in additional customers or revenues. Our growth depends in part on our customers’ ability and willingness to promote services and attract and retain new customers or achieve other goals outside of our control. We sell our products for use on handheld devices primarily through our carrier customers. Losing the support of these customers may limit our ability to compete in existing and potential markets and could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, the success of these customers and their ability and willingness to market services supported by our products is critical to our future success. Our ability to generate revenues from sales of our software is also constrained by our carrier customers’ ability to attract and retain customers. We have no input into or influence upon their marketing efforts and sales and customer retention activities. If our large carrier customers fail to maintain or grow demand for their services, revenues or revenue growth from our products designed for use on mobile devices will decline and our results of operations will suffer. The ongoing uncertainty and volatility in U.S. and worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Our operations and performance depend significantly on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. The U.S. and global economic outlook remains uncertain. A general weakening of, and related decline of confidence in, the U.S. and global economies or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could make it difficult for current or potential wireless carrier and OEM customers and their end users to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and capital expenditures, which could cause them to slow spending on our products and services. These and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services and our financial condition and operating results, and may require us to record additional charges related to restructuring costs and/or the impairment of long-lived assets. Acquisitions of companies or technologies may disrupt our business and divert management attention and cause our current operations to suffer. We have historically made targeted acquisitions of smaller companies with important technology and expect to continue to do so in the future. As part of any acquisition, we will be required to assimilate the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and train, retain and motivate key personnel from the acquired businesses. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies if we fail in these efforts. Similarly, acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention from our company’s day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers and strategic partners. Acquisitions may also subject us to liabilities and risks that are not known or identifiable at the time of the acquisition. We may also have to incur debt or issue equity securities in order to finance future acquisitions. Our financial condition could be harmed to the extent we incur substantial debt or use significant amounts of our cash resources in acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities for any acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, we expect our profitability could be adversely affected because of acquisition-related accounting costs, write offs, amortization expenses, and charges related to acquired intangible assets. In consummating acquisitions, we are also subject to risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have had limited or no prior experience. If we are unable to fully integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies within existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of acquisitions. 16 Our operating income or loss may continue to change due to shifts in our sales mix and increased spending on our research and development. Our operating income or loss can change quarter to quarter and year to year due to a change in our sales mix and the timing of our continued investments in research and development and infrastructure. We continue to invest in research and development which is the lifeline of our technology portfolio. The timing of these additional expenses can vary significantly quarter to quarter and even from year to year. Our products may contain undetected software defects, which could negatively affect our revenues. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects. In the past, we have discovered software defects in certain of our products and have experienced delayed or lost revenues during the period it took to correct these problems. Although we and our OEM customers test our products, it is possible that errors may be found or occur in our new or existing products after we have commenced commercial shipment of those products. Defects, whether actual or perceived, could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenues, product returns, a delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position or claims against us by customers. Any such problems could be costly to remedy and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product sales, which could cause us to lose existing or prospective customers and could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, some of our software contains open source components that are licensed under the GNU General Public License and similar open source licenses. These components may contain undetected defects or incompatibilities, may cause us to lose control over the development of portions of our software code, and may expose us to claims of infringement if these components are, or incorporate, infringing materials, the licenses are not enforceable or are modified to become incompatible with other open source licenses, or exposure to misappropriation claims if these components include unauthorized materials from a third party. Regulations affecting our customers and us and future regulations, to which they or we may become subject to, may harm our business. Certain of our customers in the communications industry are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, which could have an indirect effect on our business. In addition, the United States telecommunications industry has been subject to continuing deregulation since 1984. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation or deregulation might occur or the effect regulation or deregulation may have on demand for our products from customers in the communications industry. Demand for our products may be indirectly affected by regulations imposed upon potential users of those products, which may increase our costs and expenses. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, which could negatively impact our revenues. Our success is dependent upon our software code base, our programming methodologies and other intellectual properties and proprietary rights. In order to protect our proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements, patents, and copyright and trademark law. We currently own U.S. trademark registrations for certain of our trademarks and U.S. patents for certain of our technologies. However, these measures afford us only limited protection. Furthermore, we rely primarily on “shrink wrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Accordingly, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain our rights without our authorization. It is also possible that third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours. It may be difficult for us to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement as the number of trademarks, patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights asserted by companies in our industry grows and the coverage of these patents and other rights and the functionality of software products increasingly overlap. From time to time, we have received communications from third parties asserting that our trade name or features, content, or trademarks of certain of our products infringe upon intellectual property rights held by 17 such third parties. We have also received correspondence from third parties separately asserting that our products may infringe on certain patents held by each of the parties. Although we are not aware that any of our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others, third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to our current or future products. Additionally, our customer agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement claims made by third parties involving our intellectual property embedded in their products. Infringement claims, whether with or without merit, could result in time-consuming and costly litigation, divert the attention of our management, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties. If we are required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, they may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Unfavorable royalty or licensing agreements could seriously impair our ability to market our products. We may raise additional capital through the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities or by borrowing money, in order to meet our capital needs. Additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us to allow us to meet our capital needs. We believe that the cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to meet our capital needs for at least the next twelve months. However, it is possible that we may need or choose to obtain additional financing to fund our activities in the future. We could raise these funds by selling more stock to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations or other business activities significantly or to obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets. In addition, we may file with the SEC a shelf registration statement to sell from time to time additional shares of our common stock in one or more offerings in amounts, at prices and on the terms that we will determine at the time of offering. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities (whether in a public offering or private placement), the ownership percentages of existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. We currently have no established line of credit or other business borrowing facility in place. It is possible that our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. The amount of capital that we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: • the market acceptance of our products; • the levels of promotion and advertising that will be required to launch our products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace; • our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans and product and technology roadmaps; • the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; • capital improvements to new and existing facilities; • our ability to meet our headcount hiring commitment to the state of Pennsylvania; • technological advances; • our competitors’ response to our products; and • our relationships with suppliers and customers. In addition, we may raise additional capital to accommodate planned growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. 18 Our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected as a result of legal, business and economic risks specific to international operations. In recent years, our revenues derived from sales to customers outside the U.S. have not been material. Our revenues derived from such sales can vary from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also frequently ship products to our domestic customers’ international manufacturing divisions and subcontractors. In the future, we may expand these international business activities. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including: • general political, social and economic instability; • trade restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls; • exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and any other country in which we operate; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • foreign technical standards; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • difficulties in securing and servicing international customers; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and any imposition of currency exchange controls; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. These conditions may increase our cost of doing business. Moreover, as our customers are adversely affected by these conditions, our business with them may be disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Security and privacy breaches may harm our business. The uninterrupted operation of our hosted solutions and the confidentiality and security of third-party information is critical to our business. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to protect, or our customers perceive that we are unable to protect, the security and privacy of our electronic information, our growth could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach may: • cause our customer to lose confidence in our solutions; • harm our reputation; • expose us to liability; and • increase our expense from potential remediation costs. While we believe we use proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market conditions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. In addition, our customers and end users may use our products and services in a manner which violates security or data privacy laws in one or more jurisdictions. Any significant or high profile data privacy breaches or violations of data privacy laws, whether directly through our hosted solutions or by third parties using our products and services, could result in the loss of business and reputation, litigation against us and regulatory investigations and penalties that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 19 Interruptions or delays in service from data center hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from data center hosting facilities. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their on-demand services and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as sales, use and other non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, sales and use taxes, and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. An increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to impose obligations on out-of-state retailers to collect sales and use taxes on their behalf. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries requiring us to collect sales and use taxes where we do not do so could result in substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest. Although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that our provisions for taxes are correct, or that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If we are required to pay substantially more taxes in the future or for prior periods, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 