Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, that could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We depend upon a single customer for a significant portion of our total net revenues. Our largest customer, Verizon Wireless, accounted for 64.4% and 74.4% of our net revenues in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In the past, we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues from sales to a small number of customers, including Verizon Wireless, and expect to continue to do so in the future. This concentration may increase in future quarters, particularly if our relationship with one major customer makes it more difficult to sell to its competitors. In that event, our revenue growth opportunities may be limited. The agreements we have with these customers are no-exclusive and do not require them to purchase any minimum quantity of our products and may be terminated by the customer or us at any time for any reason upon minimal prior written notice. These customers may not continue to place large orders for our products in the future, or purchase our products at all. If these customers fail to purchase our products at current levels, terminate or decide not to renew their agreements with us, or if the terms of our future agreements with them are less favorable to us, our revenues could decline. Our customers may acquire products from our competitors or develop their own products that compete directly with ours. In addition, our customers may adopt new and emerging technologies that we are unable to serve effectively or that are served by more established competitors. Any substantial decrease or delay in our sales to one or more of these customers, particularly Verizon Wireless, in any quarter would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, certain of our customers have in the past and may in the future acquire competitors in their industry or be acquired by competitors in their industry, causing further industry consolidation. In the past, such acquisitions have caused the purchasing departments of the combined companies to reevaluate their purchasing decisions. If one of our major customers engages in an acquisition transaction in the future, the resulting entity could change its current purchasing habits. As a result, we could lose the customer, or experience a decrease in orders from or profit margins related to that customer or a delay in orders previously made by that customer. Further, although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, the insolvency of one or more of our major customers could result in a substantial decrease in our revenues. 12 Table of Contents Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below analyst or investor expectations, which could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including the following: • the gain or loss of a key customer; • the size and timing of orders from and shipments to our major customers; • the size and timing of any return product requests for our products; • our ability to maintain or increase gross margins; • variations in our sales channels or the mix of our product sales; • our ability to anticipate market needs and to identify, develop, complete, introduce, market and produce new products and technologies in a timely manner to address those needs; • the availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effect on sales and pricing of our products; • acquisitions; • the effect of new and emerging technologies; • the timing of acceptance of new mobile services by users of our customers’ services; • deferrals of orders by our customers in anticipation of new products, applications, product enhancements or operating systems; and • general economic and market conditions. We have difficulty predicting the volume and timing of orders. In any given quarter, our sales have involved, and we expect will continue to involve, large financial commitments from a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the cancellation or deferral of even a small number of orders would reduce our revenues, which would adversely affect our quarterly financial performance. Also, we have often booked a large amount of our sales in the last month of the quarter and often in the last week of that month. Accordingly, delays in the closing of sales near the end of a quarter could cause quarterly revenues to fall substantially short of anticipated levels. Significant sales may also occur earlier than expected, which could cause operating results for later quarters to compare unfavorably with operating results from earlier quarters. A large portion of our operating expenses, including rent, depreciation and amortization is fixed and difficult to reduce or change. Accordingly, if our total revenue does not meet our expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall in revenue. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. Our total net revenues currently depend on a small number of products, so our operating results are vulnerable to unexpected shifts in demand. Substantially all of our total net revenue in recent years was derived from sales of our wireless connectivity software products until the third quarter of 2005, when we began including sales of products acquired in the Allume 13 Table of Contents Systems, Inc. acquisition. In addition, during 2006, a substantial portion of our total revenue has been derived from sales of our music management software, particularly sales of V CAST Music Essentials Kit for Verizon Wireless. Although we have introduced new products in recent quarters and our strategy is to continue to introduce new products, these efforts may not reduce the extent to which our total revenues are dependent on one or more of our products in future periods. We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few vertical markets. In particular, our music management software products are primarily sold to wireless carriers. In order to sustain and grow our business, we must continue to sell our software products into these vertical markets. Shifts in the dynamics of these vertical markets, such as new product introductions by our competitors, could seriously harm our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. To increase our sales outside our core vertical markets, for example to large enterprises, requires us to devote time and resources to hire and train sales employees familiar with those industries. Even if we are successful in hiring and training sales teams, customers in other vertical markets may not need or sufficiently value our current products or new product introductions. Competition within our target markets is intense and includes numerous established competitors, which could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. We operate in markets that are extremely competitive and subject to rapid changes in technology. Specifically, Microsoft Corporation poses a significant competitive threat to us because Microsoft operating systems may include some capabilities now provided by certain of our OEM and retail software products. If users are satisfied relying on the capabilities of the Windows-based systems or other operating systems, or other vendors products, sales of our products are likely to decline. In addition, because there are low barriers to entry into the software markets in which we participate and may participate in the future, we expect significant competition from both established and emerging software companies in the future. In fact, our growth opportunities in new product markets could be limited to the extent established and emerging software companies enter or have entered those markets. Furthermore, our existing and potential OEM customers may acquire or develop products that compete directly with our products. Microsoft and many of our other current and prospective competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Announcements of competing products by large competitors such as Microsoft or other vendors could result in the cancellation of orders by customers in anticipation of the introduction of such new products. In addition, some of our competitors currently make complementary products that are sold separately. Such competitors could decide to enhance their competitive position by bundling their products to attract customers seeking integrated, cost-effective software applications. Some competitors have a retail emphasis and offer OEM products with a reduced set of features. The opportunity for retail upgrade sales may induce these and other competitors to make OEM products available at their own cost or even at a loss. We also expect competition to increase as a result of software industry consolidations, which may lead to the creation of additional large and well-financed competitors. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Acquisitions of companies or technologies may disrupt our business and divert management attention and cause our current operations to suffer. In 2007, we acquired Ecutel Systems, Inc. and the assets of Insignia Solutions, plc and eFrontier America, Inc., and in January 2008, we completed the acquisition of the Mobility Solutions Group of PCTEL. As part of any acquisition, we will be required to assimilate the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and train, retain and motivate key personnel from the acquired businesses. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies if we fail in these efforts. Similarly, acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention from our company’s day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers and strategic partners. Acquisitions may also subject us to liabilities and risks that are not known or identifiable at the time of the acquisition. 14 Table of Contents We may also have to incur debt or issue equity securities in order to finance future acquisitions. Our financial condition could be harmed to the extent we incur substantial debt or use significant amounts of our cash resources in acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities for any acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, we expect our profitability could be adversely affected because of acquisition-related accounting costs, write offs amortization expenses and charges related to acquired intangible assets. In consummating acquisitions, we are also subject to risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have had limited or no prior experience. If we are unable to fully integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies within existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of acquisitions. We have recently entered new, emerging markets in which we have limited experience; if these markets do not develop or we are unable to otherwise succeed in them, our revenues will suffer and the price of our common stock will likely decline. Our recent product introductions, such as StuffIt Wireless, a technology for file compression, Active Images, an image-enhancement platform designed for portable devices, and the technology that underlies our firmware-over-the- air (FOTA) products have allowed us to enter new markets. We have a short operating history in these emerging markets and limited experience with image and FOTA software and platforms. A viable market for these products may not develop or be sustainable, and we may face intense competition in these markets. In addition, our success in these markets depends on our carrier customers’ ability to successfully introduce new mobile services enabled by our products and our ability to broaden our carrier customer base, which we believe will be difficult and time-consuming. If the expected benefits from entering new markets do not materialize, our revenues will suffer and the price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, to the extent we enter new markets through acquisitions of companies or technologies, our financial condition could be harmed or our stockholders could suffer dilution without a corresponding benefit to our company if we do not realize expected benefits of entering such new markets. If the adoption of and investments in new technologies and services grows more slowly than anticipated in our product planning and development, our operating results, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. If the adoption of and investments in new technologies and services does not grow or grows more slowly than anticipated, we will not obtain the anticipated returns from our planning and development investments. For example, our new QuickLink Mobile and QuickLink Enterprise products incorporate mobile IP technology which allow notebook users the ability to roam between wireless wide area networks and Wi-Fi hot spots, and to seamlessly hand off to the enterprise LAN without losing connectivity. In addition, our new FOTO products allow our customers to update mobile devices from a home office; technology that provides a mechanism to allow for efficient firmware updates for mobile devices. Future sales and any future profits from these and related products are substantially dependent upon the acceptance and use of Wi-Fi, and on the continued adoption of mobile device services. Many of our customers and other communications service providers have made and continue to make major investments in next generation networks that are intended to support more complex applications. If communications service providers delay their deployment of networks or fail to deploy such networks successfully, demand for our products could decline, which would adversely affect our revenues. Also, to the extent we devote substantial resources and incur significant expenses to enable our products to be interoperable with new networks that have failed or have been delayed or not deployed, our operating results, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. 15 Table of Contents Our growth depends in part on our carrier customers’ ability and willingness to promote services and attract and retain new customers or achieve other goals outside of our control. We sell our products for use on handheld devices primarily through our carrier customers. Losing the support of these customers may limit our ability to compete in existing and potential markets and could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, the success of these customers and their ability and willingness to market services supported by our products are critical to our future success. Our ability to generate revenues from sales of our software, including from Verizon Wireless’s use of our software in its music and multi-media efforts, is also constrained by our carrier customers’ ability to attract and retain customers. We have no input into or influence upon their marketing efforts and sales and customer retention activities. If our carrier customers, particularly our largest customer, Verizon Wireless, fail to maintain or grow demand for their services, revenues or revenue growth from of our products designed for use on mobile devices will decline and our results of operations will suffer. Our gross margins may continue to change due to shifts in our sales mix. Gross margins associated with revenues from our data and music kits are significantly lower than gross margins associated with revenues from sales of our software. This is primarily due to the fact that such kits contain hardware that must be purchased from third parties. As we had introduced music kits in our fourth quarter of 2006 and the volume of kits have changed quarter to quarter, our overall gross margins can change and have ranged from 79.7% in 2005 to 62.8% in 2006 to 71.9% in 2007. Our future gross margin could fluctuate based on the mix of products sold in a quarter. Our products may contain undetected software defects, which could negatively affect our revenues. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects. In the past, we have discovered software defects in certain of our products and have experienced delayed or lost revenues during the period it took to correct these problems. Although we and our OEM customers test our products, it is possible that errors may be found or occur in our new or existing products after we have commenced commercial shipment of those products. Defects, whether actual or perceived, could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenues, product returns, delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position or claims against us by customers. Any such problems could be costly to remedy and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product sales, which could cause us to lose existing or prospective customers and could negatively affect our results of operations. Technology and customer needs change rapidly in our market, which could render our products obsolete and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards. We will also need to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products to meet our target markets’ changing demands, keep up with evolving industry standards, including changes in the Microsoft operating systems with which our products are designed to be compatible, and to promote those products successfully. The communications and utilities software markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and short product life cycles. Any of these factors could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods as a result of the complexities inherent in today’s computing environments and the performance demanded by customers and called for by evolving wireless networking technologies. If our target markets do not develop as we anticipate, our products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, or we are unable to develop new versions of our software products that can operate on future wireless networks and PC and mobile device operating systems and interoperate with other popular applications, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Delays or failure in deliveries from our third-party suppliers could cause our net revenue to decline and harm our results of operations. We rely on third party suppliers to provide us with services and components for our product kits. These components include: compact discs; cables; printed manuals; and boxes. We do not have long-term supply arrangements with any vendor to obtain these necessary services and components for our products. If we are unable to purchase components from these suppliers or if the compact disc replication services that we use do not deliver our requirements on schedule, we may not be able to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis or enter into new orders because of a shortage in components. Any delays that we experience in delivering our products to customers could impair our customer relationships and adversely impact our reputation and our business. In addition, if our third party suppliers raise their prices for components or services, our gross margins would be reduced. A shortage in the supply of wireless communication devices such as PC cards could adversely affect our revenues. Our products are utilized with major wireless networks throughout the world that support data communications through the use of wireless communication devices such as PC cards. Because wireless network providers generally incorporate our products into the wireless communication devices that they sell directly to individual consumers, our future success depends upon the availability of such devices to consumers at reasonable prices. A shortage in the supply of wireless communication devices could put upward pressure on prices or limit the quantities available to individual consumers which could materially affect the revenues that we generate from our products. If our products are not designed into customer products, our products may not be adopted by our target markets and customers, either of which could negatively impact our results of operations. Some of our products must be incorporated into our customers’ products at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEM customers to select our products to be designed into their products. We may devote significant resources and incur significant expense on the development of a new product without any assurance that an OEM customer will select our product for design into its own product. Once an OEM customer designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing vendors involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. In addition, such design decisions are typically only made when a new system configuration is introduced, which may occur infrequently. Our development expenses may never be recovered and our results of operations and financial condition will be seriously harmed if our products are not selected at the design stage. Even if our products are selected at the design stage, sales of such products are outside of our control and we may never earn material revenues from such product sales. Regulations affecting our customers and us and future regulations to which they or we may become subject may harm our business. Certain of our customers in the communications industry are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, which could have an indirect effect on our business. In addition, the United States telecommunications industry has been subject to continuing deregulation since 1984. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation or deregulation might occur or the effect regulation or deregulation may have on demand for our products from customers in the communications industry. Demand for our products may be indirectly affected by regulations imposed upon potential users of those products, which may increase our costs and expenses. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, which could negatively impact our revenues. Our success is dependent upon our software code base, our programming methodologies and other intellectual properties and proprietary rights. In order to protect our proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of trade secret, nondisclosure and copyright and trademark law. We currently own United States trademark registrations for certain of our trademarks and United States patents for certain of our technologies. However, these measures afford us only limited protection. Furthermore, we rely primarily on “shrink wrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Accordingly, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain our rights without our authorization. It is also possible that third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours. It may be difficult for us to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement as the number of trademarks, patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights asserted by companies in our industry grows and the coverage of these patents and other rights and the functionality of software products increasingly overlap. From time to time, we have received communications from third parties asserting that our trade name or features, content, or trademarks of certain of our products infringe upon intellectual property rights held by such third parties. We have also received correspondence from third parties separately asserting that our fax products may infringe on certain patents held by each of the parties. Although we are not aware that any of our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others, third parties may claim infringement by us with respect to our current or future products. Additionally, our customer agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement claims made by third parties involving our intellectual property embedded in their products. Infringement claims, whether with or without merit, could result in time-consuming and costly litigation, divert the attention of our management, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties. If we are required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, they may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Unfavorable royalty or licensing agreements could seriously impair our ability to market our products. Our ability to predict our quarterly revenues and operating results is extremely limited. We have historically operated with little backlog because we have generally shipped our software products and recognized revenue shortly after we received orders because our production cycle has traditionally been very short. As a result, our sales in any quarter were generally dependent on orders that were booked and shipped in that quarter. As our wireless business has evolved, production cycle time for items such as data kits has increased to the point that orders received toward the end of a quarter may not ship until the subsequent quarter. From time to time, customers may issue purchase orders that have extended delivery dates that may cause the shipment to be deferred to a subsequent quarter. These situations make it difficult for us to predict what our revenues and operating results will be in any quarter. Therefore, our level of backlog is not necessarily indicative of trends in our business. If we are unable to retain key personnel, the loss of their services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our senior management and other key technical and consulting personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our key employees that govern the length of their service. The loss of the services of our key employees would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, particularly highly skilled engineers involved in the ongoing research and development required to develop and enhance our products. Competition for these employees remains high and employee retention is a common problem in our industry. Our inability to attract and retain the highly trained technical personnel that are essential to our product development, marketing, service and support teams may limit the rate at which we can generate revenue, develop new products or product enhancements and generally would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with mobile device manufacturers, market acceptance of our products, and our profitability, may suffer. Most of our strategic relationships with mobile device manufacturers are not subject to written contract, but rather are in the form of informal working relationships. We believe these relationships are valuable to our success. In particular, these relationships provide us with insights into product development and emerging technologies, which allows us to keep abreast of, or anticipate, market trends and helps us serve our current and prospective customers. Because these relationships are not typically governed by written agreements, there is no obligation for many of our partners to continue working with us. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic relationships with mobile device manufacturers or if we fail to enter into additional strategic relationships or the parties with whom we have strategic relationships favor one of our competitors, our ability to provide products that meet our current and prospective customers’ needs could be compromised and our reputation and future revenue prospects could suffer. For example, if our software does not function well with a popular mobile device because we have not maintained a relationship with its manufacturer, carriers seeking to provide that device to their respective customers could choose a competitor’s software over ours or develop their own. Even if we succeed in establishing these relationships, they may not result in additional customers or revenues. Certain individuals to whom we have granted stock options may have a right of rescission as to the options. Approximately 4,539,500 stock options having a weighted average exercise price of $3.74 that were granted under our 1995 Stock Option / Stock Issuance Plan and 2005 Stock Option / Stock Issuance Plan between August 5, 2002 and August 31, 2006 were not exempt from registration or qualification under the securities laws of certain states, nor were they registered or qualified in such states. As a result, holders of these stock options, subject to the securities laws of the state in which they live, have a right of rescission with respect to the options. This means that if a holder elects to exercise his or her right of rescission, he or she will have a right to require us to repurchase the option for cash. Rescission rights or similar remedies may be available to persons who were granted options and no longer hold them. No liability has been recorded for these rescission rights or remedies. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or enforcement actions by applicable state regulatory agencies regarding these issuances. We may raise additional capital through the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities or by borrowing money, in order to meet our capital needs. Additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us to allow us to meet our capital needs. We believe that the cash, cash equivalents and investments on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to meet our capital needs for at least the next twelve months. However, it is possible that we may need or choose to obtain additional financing to fund our activities in the future. We could raise these funds by selling more stock to the public or to selected investors, or by borrowing money. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations or other business activities significantly or to obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. We currently have no established line of credit or other business borrowing facility in place. 19 Table of Contents It is possible that our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. The amount of capital that we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: • the market acceptance of our products; • the levels of promotion and advertising that will be required to launch our products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace; • our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans and product and technology roadmaps; • the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; • capital improvements to new and existing facilities; • technological advances; • our competitors’ response to our products; and • our relationships with suppliers and customers. In addition, we may raise additional capital to accommodate planned growth, hiring, infrastructure and facility needs or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected as a result of legal, business and economic risks specific to international operations. In recent years, our revenues derived from sales to customers outside the United States have not been material. Our revenues derived from such sales can vary from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also frequently ship products to our domestic customers’ international manufacturing divisions and subcontractors. In the future, we may expand these international business activities. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including: • general political, social and economic instability; • trade restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls; • exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and any other country in which we operate; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • foreign technical standards; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • difficulties in securing and servicing international customers; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and any imposition of currency exchange controls; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. These conditions may increase our cost of doing business. Moreover, as our customers are adversely affected by these conditions, our business with them may be disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 