RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to us and our business. You should also read the other information included in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We compete in a highly competitive market with limited barriers to entry and significant pricing pressures. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully compete. The U.S. staffing services market is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service and specialized staffing agencies, systems integrators, computer systems consultants, search firms and other providers of staffing services. Although the majority of our competitors are significantly smaller than we are, a number of competitors have greater marketing and financial resources than us. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into our markets and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, competition from new entrants into our markets. We expect that the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or maintain or increase gross margins, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, from time to time we experience significant pressure from our clients to reduce price levels. During these periods, we may face increased competitive pricing pressures and we may not be able to recruit the personnel necessary to fill our clients’ needs. We also face the risk that certain of our current and prospective clients will decide to provide similar services internally. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully compete. Any economic downturn may cause our revenues to decline and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by local, regional and global economic conditions. Since demand for personnel services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business may suffer during economic downturns. As economic activity slows down, companies tend to reduce their use of temporary employees and permanent placement services before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees, resulting in decreased demand for personnel services. Also, as businesses reduce their hiring of permanent employees, revenue from our permanent placement services is adversely affected. As a result, any significant economic downturn could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the economic slowdown during the last few years significantly affected the willingness and ability of businesses to invest capital in upgrading or replacing their technology systems and platforms. Many of our clients canceled, reduced or deferred expenditures for technology services during the economic downturn. If capital investment is constrained by a slow economic environment, or by other factors that we can neither control nor predict, then our existing and prospective clients may increasingly defer or cancel installation of new or upgraded technology systems and platforms. As a result, revenues from our technology services business may not regain former levels in the near term and may in fact decline. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain current levels of billable hours and bill rates and control our costs. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is largely dependent on the following factors: the number of hours billed for our services, the rates we charge for these services and the pay rate of our consultants. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Accordingly, if we are unable to maintain these amounts at current levels, our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. The rates we charge for our services are affected by a number of considerations, including: • our clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services; • competition, including pricing policies of our competitors; and • general economic conditions. The number of billable hours is affected by various factors, including the following: • the demand for IT staffing services; • the quality and scope of our services; • seasonal trends, primarily as a result of holidays, vacations and inclement weather; • our ability to transition consultants from completed assignments to new engagements; • our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriately balanced and sized workforce; and • our ability to manage consultant turnover. Our pay rates are affected primarily by the supply of and demand for skilled U.S.-based consultants. During periods when demand for consultants exceeds the supply, pay rates may increase. Some of our costs, such as office rents, are fixed in the short term, which limits our ability to reduce costs in periods of declining revenues. Our current and future cost-management initiatives may not be sufficient to maintain our margins as our level of revenue varies. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified billable consultants, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to attract and retain the services of qualified billable consultants who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to meet our clients’ specific needs. We are required to continually evaluate, upgrade and supplement our staff in each of our markets to keep pace with changing client needs and technologies and to fill new positions. The IT staffing industry in particular has high turnover rates and is affected by the supply of and demand for IT professionals. This has resulted in intense competition for IT professionals, and we expect such competition to continue. In addition, our consultants’ loyalty to us may have been harmed by our decreasing pay rates in order to preserve our profit margin in the previous market downturn, which may adversely affect our competitive position. Certain of our IT operations recruit consultants who require H-1B visas, and U.S. immigration policy currently restricts the number of new H-1B petitions that may be granted in each fiscal year. Our failure to attract and retain the services of personnel, or an increase in the turnover rate among our employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If a supply of qualified consultants, particularly IT professionals, is not available to us in sufficient numbers or on economic terms that are, or will continue to be, acceptable to us, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on key personnel, and the loss of the services of one or more of our senior management or a significant portion of our local management personnel could weaken our management team and our ability to deliver quality services and could adversely affect our business. Our operations historically have been, and continue to be, dependent on the efforts of our executive officers and senior management, including Mike Willis, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. In addition, we are dependent on the performance and productivity of our respective regional operations executives, local managing directors and field personnel. The loss of one or more of these employees could have an adverse 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements effect on our operations, including our ability to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions. Our ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered by branch managerial personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees to perform these services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our dependence on large customers and the risks we assume under our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. We depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Generally, we do not provide services to our customers under long-term contracts. If one or more of our large customers terminated an existing contract or substantially reduced the services they purchase from us, our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, large customers, including those with preferred supplier arrangements, increasingly have been seeking pricing discounts in exchange for higher volumes of business. Furthermore, because of the size of our large customers, we may be required to accept less favorable terms regarding risk allocation to retain their business. We have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have substantial indebtedness. In connection with the consummation of the merger, we entered into a credit agreement providing for a two-year term loan of $15 million and a five-year revolving credit facility of up to $100 million. In addition, we also entered into an agreement providing for a second lien term loan of $70 million. As of January 2, 2005, our outstanding debt was approximately $140 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, our outstanding debt bears interest at a variable rate, subjecting us to interest rate risk. In the event economic conditions result in higher interest rates, our debt service requirements on our outstanding debt will also increase. Our debt service requirements require the use of a substantial portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest on our debt instead of other corporate purposes. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that our cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, or that any such alternative measures would be successful or would permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business and financial condition. Restrictive financing covenants limit the discretion of our management and may inhibit our operating flexibility. Our credit facilities contain a number of covenants that limit the discretion of our management with respect to certain business matters. Our credit facilities contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • repurchase shares; • declare or pay dividends and other distributions; 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • incur liens; • make capital expenditures; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • repay debt; and • dispose of property. In addition, under our credit facilities, we are required to satisfy a minimum EBITDA, minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum total leverage ratio. A breach of any covenants governing our debt would permit the acceleration of the related debt and potentially other indebtedness under cross-default provisions, which could harm our business and financial condition. These restrictions may place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not required to operate under such restrictions or that are subject to less stringent restrictive covenants. Factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. Our business strategy includes increasing our market share and presence in the IT staffing industry through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. We expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources or access to financing on more favorable terms than us. This competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire staffing companies that complement or enhance our business and frequently have preliminary acquisition discussions with some of these companies. These acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • potential loss of key employees or clients of acquired companies; • difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into a single business; • diversion of management attention from existing operations; and • assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. These acquisitions may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence and integration expenses. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may suffer losses due to the conduct of our employees or our clients during staffing assignments. We employ and place people generally in the workplaces of other businesses. Attendant risks of this activity include possible claims of discrimination and harassment, employment of illegal aliens, violations of wage and hour requirements, errors and omissions of temporary employees, particularly of professionals, misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other criminal activity or torts and other similar claims. In some instances we have agreed to indemnify our clients against some or all of the foregoing matters. We will be responsible for these indemnification obligations, to the extent they remain in effect, and may in the future agree to provide similar indemnities to some of our prospective clients. In certain circumstances, we may be held responsible for the actions at a workplace of persons not under our direct control. Although historically we have not had any significant problems in this area, there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future or that our insurance, if any, will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover any such liability. The failure of any of our employees or personnel to observe our policies and guidelines, relevant client 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements policies and guidelines, or applicable federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations, and other circumstances that cannot be predicted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additional government regulation and rising health care and unemployment insurance costs and taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are required to pay a number of federal, state and local payroll and related costs, including unemployment taxes and insurance, workers’ compensation, FICA and Medicare, among others, for our employees. We also provide various benefits to our employees, including health insurance. Significant increases in the effective rates of any payroll-related costs would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations unless we can pass them along to our customers. Our costs could also increase if health care reforms expand the scope of mandated benefits or employee coverage or if regulators impose additional requirements and restrictions related to the placement of personnel. We generally seek to increase fees charged to our clients to cover increases in health care, unemployment and other direct costs of services, but our ability to pass these costs to our clients over the last several years has diminished. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our clients in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount if these expenses continue to rise. There is also no assurance that we will be able to adapt to future regulatory changes made by the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Labor or other state and federal regulatory agencies. Our inability to increase our fees or adapt to future regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We will be subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to timely comply with Section 404 or if the costs related to compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price and results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We will be required to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal controls and certify that we are responsible for maintaining an adequate system of internal control procedures. This section also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm opine on those internal controls and management’s assessment of those controls. We are currently evaluating our existing controls against the standards adopted by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). During the course of our ongoing evaluation and integration of the internal controls of our business, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and we may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running the day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could be significant. If the time and costs associated with such compliance exceed our current expectations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot be certain at this time that we will be able to successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 or that our auditors will not have to report a material weakness in connection with the presentation of our financial statements. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if our auditors report such material weakness, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual report may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We do not own an offshore outsourcing facility, which may put us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have their own offshore outsourcing centers. In the past few years, more companies are using, or are considering using, low cost “offshore” outsourcing centers, particularly in India, to perform technology related work and projects. This trend has contributed to the decline in domestic IT staff augmentation revenue as well as on-site solutions oriented projects. We compete for this business through a strategic alliance relationship with a company in India rather than owning an offshore program directly. As a result, we may be disadvantaged in competing for the business of large customers who prefer to deal with a single provider with its own offshore outsourcing centers. We have had substantial intangible assets and have incurred significant impairment charges, and may incur further charges if there are significant adverse changes to our outlook. Our intangible assets consist principally of goodwill and customer base intangibles resulting from the acquisition of businesses from unrelated third parties for cash and other consideration. We have accounted for these acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting, with the assets and liabilities of the businesses acquired recorded at their estimated fair values as of the dates of the acquisitions. Goodwill in an amount equal to the excess of cost over fair value of the net assets acquired has been recorded at historical cost. Our other intangible assets consist mainly of covenants not to compete, the value of our customer base and certain prepayments made under multiple year consultant supply contracts. We have adopted Statement of Financial Standards No. 142, which prohibits the amortization of goodwill for indefinite-lived intangible assets and requires that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets be tested annually for impairment. We perform these tests on an annual basis, and any significant adverse changes in our expected future operating results or outlook would likely result in impairment of the affected intangible assets. Adverse results in tax audits could require significant cash expenditures or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We are subject to periodic federal, state and local income tax audits for various tax years. Although we attempt to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by the taxing authorities as the result of an audit could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. We may be subject to lawsuits and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A number of lawsuits and claims are pending against us, and additional claims and lawsuits may arise in the future. Litigation is inherently uncertain and may be costly and time consuming to resolve, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Concentration of services in the Washington, D.C. area may adversely affect our revenues in the event of extraordinary events. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from services provided in the Washington, D.C. area. A terrorist attack, such as that of September 11, 2001, or other extraordinary events in the Washington, D.C. area could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We depend on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning of information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems are used in every aspect of our daily operations, most significantly, in the identification and matching of staffing resources to client assignments and in the customer billing and consultant payment functions. Our systems are vulnerable to natural disasters, fire, terrorist acts, power loss, telecommunications 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements failures, physical or software break-ins, computer viruses and other similar events. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, we would have to accomplish these functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and client records reliably, and to bill for services efficiently. In addition, we depend on third party vendors for certain functions whose future performance and reliability we cannot control. Our certificate of incorporation contains certain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change in control of COMSYS. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the power to determine the price and terms of any preferred stock. The ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval could deter or delay unsolicited changes of control by discouraging open market purchases of new common stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for our common stock. Discouraging open market purchases may be disadvantageous to our stockholders who may otherwise desire to participate in a transaction in which they would receive a premium for their shares. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may also discourage a change of control by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions include: • special approvals for certain related-party transactions during the first three years after the merger; • special approvals for certain fundamental corporate transactions or to amend our charter or certain provisions of our bylaws during the first three years after the merger; and • requiring stockholder action to be at a stockholders meeting and not by written consent of the stockholders. In addition, we have entered into a voting agreement giving Wachovia Investors, Inc. the right to designate nominees for election to our board of directors, which may have the effect of preventing, or making more difficult, changes in control of our company. Risks Related to the Merger and the Sale of Our Commercial Staffing Business Integration of the operations of Venturi and Old COMSYS following the merger presents significant challenges that may keep COMSYS from realizing the anticipated benefits of the merger. We completed the merger of our wholly owned subsidiary, VTP, Inc., with and into Old COMSYS on September 30, 2004. The success of the merger depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities expected to result from integrating Venturi’s IT staffing business with the business of Old COMSYS. Our ability to realize these benefits on a timely basis depends upon the successful integration of the combined operations. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process that presents significant challenges, including: • retaining and assimilating key officers and employees; • consolidating corporate and administrative functions, including transitioning to centralized processes and procedures for corporate functions, including contract services, risk management, payroll and billing; • transitioning to uniform policies throughout the organization; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • preserving the customer, supplier, marketing and promotional relationships and other important relationships of both companies; 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • successfully commercializing products and services under development and increasing revenues from existing marketed products and services; and • coordinating geographically separate operations. The primary remaining integration components include the final transition of all back office functions to the COMSYS shared services center located in Phoenix, Arizona and continued marketing and client development as a combined company. The process of combining the organization may yet cause an interruption in our business, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our estimates of cost savings and cost saving components as a result of the merger are inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance as to the accuracy of these estimates. The estimated cost savings expected to result from the merger are based on a number of assumptions, including our successful implementation within a defined period of necessary cost saving programs, such as the elimination of duplicative management costs and administrative programs and the implementation of tax planning strategies. The cost savings estimates also assume that we will be able to realize merger efficiencies such as marketing synergies, economies of scale and interest expense savings. If we fail to achieve the anticipated cost savings of the merger, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to liabilities arising from the sale of our commercial staffing services subsidiary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In connection with the sale of our commercial staffing services subsidiary, Venturi Staffing Partners, Inc., on September 30, 2004, we agreed to indemnify CBS Personnel Services, Inc. (formerly Compass CS Inc.) and its affiliates for any losses, damages or expenses they incur in connection with the following: • any breach of any of our representations and warranties in the stock purchase agreement (including the disclosure letter) or any other document or certificate we delivered in connection with the closing; • any breach of our covenants or obligations in the stock purchase agreement to the extent such breach was not disclosed on our closing certificate; • any claims for payments due from Venturi Staffing Partners, Inc. with respect to the Venturi Partners, Inc. non-qualified profit-sharing plan; and • the failure to obtain any third-party consent required in connection with the completion of the commercial staffing services sale. In general, we are liable for indemnification only if CBS Personnel Services notifies us of a claim within one year of the closing date of the sale. Our liability extends, however, through the applicable statute of limitations for any breach of our representation regarding tax matters, and there is no time limit on claims brought in connection with any breach of our representations regarding authorization of the transactions, corporate power and authority, absence of conflicts with our organizational documents or board resolutions, capitalization of Venturi Staffing Partners, Inc. and absence of brokerage commissions due and claims based on our failure to fulfill our obligations under the non-qualified profit-sharing plan. Subject to the same exceptions listed in the preceding paragraph, we are not liable for any claims until the aggregate amount of the claims exceeds $200,000, and then we are liable only for the amount of damages in excess of $100,000. Under our agreement with CBS Personnel Services, our indemnification obligations cannot exceed $5 million, except for liabilities relating to taxes and certain unemployment and unclaimed property taxes. We placed $2.5 million in escrow at closing to secure our obligations relating to these unemployment and unclaimed property taxes. Liability incurred by us pursuant to these indemnification obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings. The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price and marketability of our shares and may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through equity financings. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets generally; • changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • changes in regulatory policies or tax laws; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated among a small number of major stockholders that have the ability to exercise significant control over us, and whose interests may differ from the interests of other stockholders. As of March 15, 2005, Wachovia Investors, Inc. beneficially owned 47.1% of our outstanding common stock, MatlinPatterson Global Opportunities Partners, L.P. beneficially owned 9.4% of our outstanding common stock and Inland Partners, L.P. and Links Partners, L.P. collectively beneficially owned 9.5% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, pursuant to the terms of a voting agreement entered into in connection with the merger, our principal stockholder, Wachovia Investors, has the right to recommend to the nominating committee of our board four to six nominees to be elected to our board of directors, depending on the size of the board, during the first three years after the merger, and each stockholder party to the voting agreement is required to vote its shares of our common stock in favor of such nominees. The voting agreement may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our management or voting control. As a practical matter, Wachovia Investors acting alone or these stockholders collectively will be able to exert significant influence over, or determine, the direction taken by our company and the outcome of future matters submitted to our stockholders, including the terms of any proposal to acquire our company, subject to some limited protections afforded to minority stockholders under our charter. These protections include special approval requirements during the first three years after the merger for fundamental corporate transactions, some related-party transactions and amendments to our charter and to certain provisions of our bylaws. Concentrated ownership of large blocks of our common stock may affect the value of shares held by others and our ability to access public equity markets. Our current degree of share ownership concentration may reduce the market value of common stock held by other investors for several reasons, including the perception of a “market overhang,” which is the existence of a large block of shares readily available for sale that could lead the market to discount the value of shares held by other investors. We may need to access the public equity markets to secure additional capital to pursue our acquisition strategy and meet other financial needs. Our registration obligations to our significant stockholders could limit our ability or make it more difficult for us to raise funds through common stock offerings upon desirable terms or when required. Our failure to raise additional capital when required could: • restrict growth, both internally and through acquisitions; 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • inhibit our ability to invest in technology and other products and services that we may need; and • adversely affect our ability to compete in our markets. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our stockholders. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock, and we currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. In addition, the terms of our credit facilities prohibit us from paying dividends and making other distributions. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur, will provide a return to our stockholders. 