Item 1A. Risk Factors. Mature Markets; Competition; Consumer Trends Our strategy for growth depends upon increasing the acceptance of our current brands in our major markets, expanding into new markets and increasing the number of footwear products and brands that we sell. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop new branded products or acquire other valuable brands from third parties. The bulk of our sales are in the United States and Canada where the market is mature for many of our products. To grow our business, we must increase our market share at the expense of our competitors, and there can be no assurance we will be successful. Our efforts to expand sales outside the United States and Canada may not succeed. Both the footwear industry specifically, and the fashion industry in general, are subject to rapid and substantial shifts in consumer tastes and preferences. There are many competitors in our markets with substantially greater financial resources, production, marketing and product development capabilities. Our performance may be hurt by our competitors’ product development, sourcing, pricing, innovation and marketing strategies. In addition, we expect the footwear marketplace in the United States to continue to experience the entry of brands from foreign companies. 8 Table of Contents The fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending, on which our results are, in part, dependent. Consumer spending may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income, which may fluctuate upon a number of factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence and business conditions. Moreover, consumer acceptance of our new products may fall below expectations and the launch of new product lines may be delayed. The results of our wholesale businesses are affected by the buying plans of our customers, which include large department stores, as well as smaller retailers. Our wholesale customers may not inform us of changes in their buying plans until it is too late for us to make the necessary adjustments to our product lines and marketing strategies. While we believe that purchasing decisions in many cases are made independently by individual stores or store chains, we are exposed to decisions by the controlling owner of a store chain, to decrease the amount of footwear products purchased from us. In addition, the retail industry periodically experiences consolidation. We face a risk that our wholesale customers may consolidate, restructure, reorganize or realign in ways that could decrease the number of stores or the amount of shelf space that carry our products. We also face a risk that our wholesale customers could develop in-house brands or utilize the private labeling of footwear products. The impact that e-commerce will continue to have on the retail industry in the future is uncertain and may adversely affect our business. Additionally, the strength or weakness of the overall economy as well as severe weather conditions can have a substantial effect on our business. Stride Rite-owned retail stores are increasingly significant to our business, especially with respect to the Stride Rite brand. In the future, we may evaluate new retail concepts to market the other footwear brands owned by us. The management of our Stride Rite Children’s Group does extensive research on potential sites for new stores, including demographic studies and an evaluation of the impact that potential locations would have on the results of our existing Stride Rite-owned stores and our network of locations operated by independent licensed dealers. Despite this careful evaluation, new Stride Rite stores may not meet sales expectations and new retail concepts may not achieve the expected financial results. The opening of new stores may also be delayed for a variety of reasons. During fiscal 2007, we plan to increase the number of retail stores between 5% and 10%. Integration of the Robeez Acquisition During the fourth quarter of the 2006 fiscal year, we acquired Robeez Footwear, Ltd. This was a significant purchase and our ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition will depend in part on our achieving the anticipated synergies with Robeez. There is the possibility of incurring costs or experiencing difficulties related to this integration that may adversely affect our business. Inventory Obsolescence The fashion-oriented nature of our industry, the rapid changes in customer preferences and the extended product development and sourcing lead times also leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. While we have successfully managed this risk in the past, and believe we can successfully manage it in the future, our revenue and operating margins will suffer if we are unable to do so. Retention of Major Brand License We have derived significant revenues and earnings in the past from our exclusive licensing agreement with Tommy Hilfiger Licensing, Inc. to produce and sell Tommy Hilfiger branded footwear. Our Tommy Hilfiger license was amended and renewed for a term expiring December 31, 2008. Whether our license with Tommy Hilfiger will remain in effect depends, in part, on our achieving certain minimum sales levels for the licensed products. Although we currently are exceeding these minimum sales levels, there can be no assurance that we will in the future. We believe we enjoy a good relationship with Tommy Hilfiger Licensing, Inc. and it is our intention to continue this license. Tommy Hilfiger Corp., the parent company of Tommy Hilfiger Licensing, Inc., was acquired by Apax Partners during 2006. If we were to lose the Tommy Hilfiger license it would have a material adverse effect on our business. The aggregate revenues produced by our Tommy Hilfiger licenses were 9 Table of Contents approximately $93 million in fiscal 2006 and are included in the Tommy Hilfiger Footwear segment and in the Other Wholesale footwear segment (specifically the Stride Rite International division), Stride Rite Children’s Group—Retail Division, and the Stride Rite Children’s Group—Wholesale Division. Overseas Production and Raw Material Procurement We purchase substantially all of our product lines and raw materials overseas and expect to do so for the foreseeable future. Our international sourcing subjects us to the risks of doing business abroad. Such risks include the impact on product development or manufacturing as a result of health risks, expropriation, acts of war or terrorism, political disturbances, strikes or other labor disputes, political instability and similar events, including trade sanctions, loss of normalized trade relations status, export duties, import controls, quotas, port strikes, port congestion, port capacity, strikes, delays, availability of ships, availability of containers, truck availability, rail availability and other trading restrictions, as well as fluctuations in currency values. Moreover, we rely heavily on independent third-party manufacturing facilities, primarily located in China, to produce our footwear products. As is common in the industry, we do not have long-term contracts with our foreign footwear manufacturers. We are a major customer of many of the third party manufacturers from which we source products. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not experience difficulties with such manufacturers, including reduction in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Our future results will depend partly on our ability to maintain positive working relationships with our third party manufacturers. While we believe our relationships with such third-party manufacturing facilities are solid, if trade relations between the United States and China or other countries in which we manufacture our products deteriorate or are threatened by instability, our business may be adversely affected. We cannot predict the effect that changes in the economic and political conditions in China could have on the economics of doing business with Chinese manufacturers. Although we believe that we could find alternative manufacturing sources for our footwear products with independent third-party manufacturing facilities in other countries, the loss of a substantial portion of our Chinese manufacturing capacity could have a material adverse effect on our business. Due to the substantial quantity of footwear manufactured in China and its importance to the footwear industry, a major disruption would make it difficult to find capacity elsewhere in the short-term that could accommodate the overall industry-wide demand. Also, if we were required to relocate a substantial portion of our manufacturing outside of China, there can be no assurance that we could obtain as favorable economic terms, which could adversely affect our performance. The European Union has initiated anti-dumping investigations regarding the importation into the European Union of leather footwear from China. The European Commission has recommended provisional measures which, if implemented, would result in additional duties on certain leather footwear imported into the European Union from China. Analysis and discussion between the European Commission, Member States and interested parties regarding these anti-dumping investigations is continuing and the final outcome of these investigations is uncertain. Dependence on Logistical Systems Our business operations are dependent on our logistical systems, which include our order management system and our computerized warehouse network. The logistical systems enable us to procure our footwear products from overseas manufacturers, transport it to our distribution facilities, store it and timely deliver it to our customers, in the correct sizes and styles. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). A disruption to the logistical systems could have a material adverse impact on our business. International Operating Risks Our products are sold outside the United States and Canada through independent licensees or distributors, as well as our own personnel. Failure by our licensees or distributors to meet planned annual sales goals could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and it may be difficult and costly 10 Table of Contents to locate an acceptable substitute distributor or licensee. If a change in distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as substantial disruption and a resulting loss of sales and brand equity in that market. In addition, we are subject to other risks of doing business abroad, including, among other risks, foreign currency exchange rate risks, import restrictions, anti-dumping investigations, political or labor disturbances, expropriation and acts of war or terrorism. The European Union is considering imposition of anti-dumping measures, including increased import duties, with respect to leather footwear imported from China. Although we pay for the purchase and manufacture of our products primarily in U.S. dollars, we are routinely subject to currency rate movements on non-U.S. denominated assets, liabilities and income as we sell goods in local currencies through our foreign subsidiaries. No assurances can be given that we will be protected from future changes in foreign currency exchange rates that may impact our financial condition or performance. We engage in hedging activities to mitigate the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on our financial results. See Note 15 to our financial statements, Derivative Instruments. Our hedging activities are designed to reduce, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. Since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. Our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. Implementation of Growth Strategies As part of our growth strategy, we seek to enhance the positioning of our brands and to extend our brands into complementary product categories and consumer groups, to expand geographically, and to improve operational performance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement any or all of these growth strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Intellectual Property Risk We believe that our patents and trademarks are important to our business and are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure patents or trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or whether that protection will be adequate for future products. Further, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in the countries where we source and distribute our products. Finally, we cannot be sure that our activities will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liabilities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 