ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risk factors set forth elsewhere in this annual report, including, without limitation, in Items 1, 7, 7a, and 9a, investors should carefully consider the following risk factors before making investment decisions regarding our securities. Risks Related To Our Business and Industry Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the price of aircraft fuel, the volatility of the price of aircraft fuel, or both. During 2008, our business was adversely affected by both increases in the price of aircraft fuel and the volatility in aircraft fuel prices. Fuel prices reached record highs on an actual and inflation adjusted basis before moderating beginning in the fourth quarter. Aircraft fuel was our single largest expenditure in 2008, and accounted for 45.5 percent, 37.1 percent, and 36.5 percent of our operating expenses in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Based on current and projected operations, our fuel expense, before the impact of hedging arrangements, will increase approximately $9.0 million in 2009 for each $1 per barrel increase in the cost of crude oil and refining costs. In 2008, we incurred a loss primarily due to the increased cost of jet fuel. In 2008, the market for aircraft fuel was marked by extreme volatility. Prices per gallon in 2008 ranged from a high of $4.21 to a low of $1.24. Volatility in fuel prices, whether due to global demand, global economic conditions, speculation, or market manipulation subjects us to a variety of risks. Even though our operations benefit in the long term from a low fuel cost environment, because we entered into hedging arrangements while fuel costs were relatively high to mitigate the impact of potentially higher fuel costs, the material downward spikes in fuel costs in late 2008 had an adverse impact on our cash, especially in the fourth quarter, either because we were required to post cash as collateral related to our hedging activities or we elected to unwind a substantial percentage of our hedged fuel needs based on our assessment of expected 2009 prices and volatility. The extent of cash collateral that we are required to post is dependent on the composition of the derivative portfolio; purchased calls do not expose us to collateral requirements, whereas collars and swaps do expose us to collateral requirements. Although we have made adjustments to our business strategy to address high fuel costs and we believe such adjustments should continue to help us if fuel prices again rise, we may not have the ability to operate profitably if we are faced with extended periods of high fuel costs or shorter periods of extremely high fuel costs. Volatility risks include the impact of rapid changes on our ability to set, implement, and adjust our strategic plans, which generally have multi-year time horizons, especially with respect to aircraft acquisitions, and to manage our liquidity, including our cash assets and working capital. Rapid upward spikes in fuel costs have an immediate adverse impact on our fuel costs and adversely affect our ability to adjust prices or hedge fuel cost risks. Volatility makes it more difficult for us to manage our fuel costs and subjects us to a greater risk of loss if the market price of jet fuel or crude oil is less than the relevant underlying commodity price in the applicable derivative financial arrangements utilized to hedge against price changes. Accordingly, volatility in fuel prices may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. It is impossible to predict reliably the future price of or the volatility of aircraft fuel. Political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in governmental policy concerning the production, transportation, or marketing of aircraft fuel, changes in jet fuel production capacity, environmental concerns, macroeconomic conditions both within the United States and globally, market manipulation and price speculation and other unpredictable events may result in higher fuel prices, increased volatility, or both. 13 If our costs and unfunded capital expenditure needs exceed our revenues, we may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity. Although our available capital has been sufficient to meet our current operating expenses, lease obligation and debt service requirements to date, we may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity in future years unless we are able to increase our revenues, manage expenses effectively, or otherwise improve operating results or obtain new sources of capital. We have made adjustments to our business strategy based on: capacity reductions—both in available seat miles and in number of aircraft; fares and fees; the deferral of capital expenditures; continued cuts in non-fuel costs, including workforce reductions; and obtaining additional sources of capital, all with the aim of improving our results of operations and liquidity. Although our aggregate unrestricted cash and short-term investments at December 31, 2008, was $335.0 million ($340.5 million including long-term investments), our strategy may not be successful either in improving our results of operations or in further improving our liquidity. We may not achieve necessary increases in unit revenue as a consequence of either capacity reductions in the industry in general or our own individual capacity reductions in particular. Further, certain of our competitors may not reduce capacity but may increase capacity in markets we serve, thereby diminishing our expected benefit from individual and industry capacity reductions. Higher fares and fees may have an adverse impact on travel demand and we may not be able to optimize our fees and fares relative to demand. In addition to operating cash needs, certain elements of our plan may require the use of cash in connection with work force reductions or early termination fees in connection with aircraft lease terminations. At certain fuel price levels, our current and potential cost structure—even with full implementation of our business plan—may preclude our ability to operate profitably. We may be adversely affected by a further deterioration of economic conditions. The recent unprecedented deterioration in the U.S. and global credit markets and the deterioration in consumer demand could negatively impact our business in several ways. For instance, rising unemployment, market turmoil and tightening of credit, as well as the recent and dramatic decline in the housing market in the United States, has led to a lack of consumer confidence and widespread reduction of business activity and consumer spending generally, which could significantly negatively impact our revenues. The recent decline in stock prices has also reduced the availability of funds for persons that invested directly or indirectly in the stock market. We do not expect that the difficult economic conditions are likely to improve significantly in the near future, and any continuation or worsening of the credit crisis, or even the fear of such a development, could intensify the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions. We may be adversely affected by the limited availability and increased cost of credit. U.S. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all. As a result of this disruption, we have experienced an increase in the costs associated with, and a decrease in the availability of, borrowings necessary to operate our business. If these conditions continue or worsen, our cost of borrowing may further increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they come due in the ordinary course. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely also increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. A significant increase in the costs we incur in order to finance our operations likely would have a material adverse impact on our business results and financial condition. If our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities. 14 Further downgrades in our credit ratings and macroeconomic conditions may adversely affect our borrowing costs, limit our financing options, reduce our flexibility under future financings, and adversely affect our liquidity. Our long-term debt is rated by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. The credit ratings for our existing public debt were lowered in July 2008. Our public debt is currently rated below-investment grade by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, and any future long-term borrowings or the extension or replacement of our short-term borrowing facilities will reflect the negative impact of this rating, increasing our borrowing costs, limiting our financing options, including limiting our access to the unsecured borrowing market, and subjecting us to more restrictive covenants than our existing debt arrangements. Additional reductions in our credit ratings could further increase our borrowing costs, subject us to more onerous terms, and reduce our borrowing flexibility in the future. Such limitations on our financing options may affect our ability to fund major new acquisitions or capital-intensive internal initiatives. In addition, deteriorating economic conditions, including market disruptions, tightened credit markets and significantly wider corporate borrowing spreads, may make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain replacement financing, including in connection with the renewal of an existing revolving credit facility that expires in April 2010 and the refinancing of debt maturing in 2009 and 2010. Currently, we do not have any debt obligations that would be accelerated as a result of a credit rating downgrade. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted in the event we need to and are unable to monetize additional aircraft assets or obtain additional sources of financing. Despite our 2008 public offerings, our recent and pending aircraft sales and our Letter of Credit and Revolving Line of Credit Facility (which is discussed elsewhere in this report and these Risk Factors), we cannot assure you that, in the event we need to obtain additional liquidity, we will be able to sell additional aircraft, renew or extend existing financing arrangements, or obtain new financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Nor can we predict with any certainty when any such sales or other financings might occur. We also cannot assure you that our ability to sell or otherwise monetize aircraft assets will not be adversely affected by similar attempts by other operators of commercial aircraft in general or by operators of B737 aircraft in particular. Similarly, the limited number of operators of B717 aircraft would likely adversely affect the market for such aircraft and our ability to sell or otherwise monetize such aircraft if we decide to do so. Our ability to generate cash from the disposition of certain aircraft may require the consent of one or more secured parties including in connection with our obligations under our Letter of Credit and Revolving Line of Credit Facility, and we would likely be required to apply the proceeds from the sale of aircraft which are encumbered by liens to reduce or pay off indebtedness. Certain other carriers also have or are reducing capacity and various other air carriers are in the process of liquidation or may liquidate if they are unable to reorganize. The availability of other aircraft for sale could have an adverse impact on our ability to sell or otherwise monetize aircraft and on the market values of our aircraft assets, including any aircraft we seek to sell or pledge as collateral. Reductions in the value of assets pledged to secure our obligations under our Letter of Credit and Revolving Line of Credit Facility could result in reductions in the amount available under such facility. Finally, continued turmoil in the global capital markets and a continued economic recession in the United States and other countries may reduce the market for aircraft assets or other financings. Accordingly, we may not be able to further monetize available assets or enter into additional financing transactions on terms which are acceptable to us or at all. 15 If our liquidity position deteriorates significantly, it could be further adversely impacted in the event our primary credit card processors were to re-impose or increase existing holdbacks on payments due to us from credit card transactions. We have agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchasing air travel by our customers. Each of our agreements with our credit card processors allows, under specified conditions, the processor to retain cash related to future travel that such processor otherwise would remit to us (i.e., a “holdback”). Holdbacks are classified as restricted cash on our consolidated balance sheet. Our exposure to credit card holdbacks consists of advanced ticket sales that customers purchase with credit cards. Once the customer travels, any related holdback is remitted to us. The imposition of holdbacks or increases in the amount of existing holdbacks will adversely affect our liquidity and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had advanced ticket sales of approximately $223.5 million related to all credit card sales. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with our processing agreements and based on our level of profitability and unrestricted cash and investments, as defined, our two largest processors were entitled to holdback 50% of their exposure to credit card chargebacks. Had we not been in compliance with the agreements, or if our level of unrestricted cash and investments, as defined, was lower, our potential cash exposure to additional holdbacks by our largest two credit card processors based on advanced ticket sales as of December 31, 2008, after considering the $125 million letter of credit issued in favor of our largest credit card processor, was up to a maximum of $84.0 million. Our levels of unrestricted cash and air traffic liability are highly seasonal reaching their highest levels in the early summer and late fall and reaching their lowest levels in the winter; accordingly the amounts potentially withheld by our credit card processors are also higher, and in some cases substantially higher, during certain times of the year. Our future aggregate cash and investments will be dependent on, among other factors, our future profitability, including the cost of fuel, the extent of cash collateral related to derivative financial instruments we may be required to fund, the level of advance ticket sales, our borrowing availability under our new Revolving Line of Credit Facility, and the continued availability of our Letter of Credit Facility. While a decrease in our unrestricted cash and investments could result in additional amounts being withheld by our credit card processors, to the extent that we achieve specified aggregate unrestricted cash and investment amounts and profitability levels, each agreement also provides for a reduction or elimination of the percent of its exposure that each processor is currently entitled to hold back. Although we have been able to negotiate agreements with our two largest credit card processors, we cannot predict whether we will continue to be able to maintain agreements with either or both credit card processors, or the level of holdbacks we will be required to maintain, if our liquidity is further adversely affected for an extended period of time whether due to changes in fuel costs, high fuel prices or a worsening economic environment. The inability to maintain our existing credit card processing agreement with our largest credit card processor would have a material adverse effect on our business. The number of credit card processors providing services to the airline industry for branded credit cards currently is limited and we believe that certain processors for such cards generally are not entering into arrangements with new customers. If our agreement with our largest processor is terminated we may be unable to enter into new credit card processing agreements with any other processor of similarly branded credit cards on terms acceptable to us or at all. Because our second largest processor generally issues and processes its own cards, termination of our agreement with such processor likely would result in our inability to accept such card as a method of payment. Such inability could also have a material adverse effect on our business. For additional discussion of our credit card processing agreements see ITEM 7. “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES – Credit Card Processing Arrangements.” For discussion of the Letter of Credit and Revolving Line of Credit Facility, see ITEM 7. “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES – Letter of Credit and Revolving Line of Credit Facility.” 16 Our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position are, and will continue to be, influenced by economic conditions as demand for discretionary travel diminishes during economic downturns. The airline industry is highly cyclical, and the growth in demand for air travel is correlated to the growth in the U.S. and global economies. The profitability of our operations is especially influenced by the condition of the United States economy, which may impact the demand for discretionary travel and our competitive pricing position. Most air travel is price sensitive and discretionary travel, which is a substantial portion of our business, declines during economic downturns. Our 2008 results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition were, and our 2009 results of operation, cash flows, and financial condition likely will be, adversely affected by recent, current, and emerging weak macroeconomic conditions in the United States, including the current recession. A prolonged economic recession could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Air travel tends to be seasonal. Demand tends to be highest in the second quarter due to higher family air travel. Accordingly, the second quarter tends to be our strongest revenue quarter. In light of economic conditions and rapidly changing network operations and travel pricing in our industry, we cannot predicate whether demand for air travel either for the industry in general, or AirTran Airways in particular, for 2009 will be in accord with recent historical seasonally adjusted demand. Airline bankruptcies, strategic combinations, or industry consolidations could have an impact on our competitive environment in ways yet to be determined. The environment in the airline industry changes from time to time as carriers enter and, more rarely, exit the U.S. market, implement varying strategies in pursuit of profitability, including consolidation to expand operations and increase market strength and enter into national or global alliance arrangements. The bankruptcy, merger or acquisition of one or more of our competitors may result in rapid changes to the identity of our competitors in particular markets, a substantial reduction in the operating costs of our competitors or the entry of new competitors into some or all of the markets we serve or currently are seeking to serve. We are unable to predict exactly what effect, if any, changes in the strategic landscape might have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have a significant amount of aircraft related fixed obligations that could impair our ability to make principal and interest payments on our debt obligations and lease payments on our lease obligations. We have significant obligations including debt and lease obligations related to aircraft purchase commitments, aircraft delivery obligations and aircraft leases, debt and lease obligations for operating facilities, including existing facilities and planned new facilities, and other cash obligations, which may include future funding obligations for potential acquisitions. Our total indebtedness as of February 2, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, was approximately $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion, of which $824.8 million and $832.8 million, respectively, was aircraft related. Our debt service obligations with respect to our indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our earnings, cash flows, and financial position for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest for our financing obligations depends on our future performance and financial results. These results are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are, to some extent, beyond our control. 17 The amount of our debt and other fixed obligations, and potential increases in the amount of our debt and other fixed obligations, an inability to refinance our debt and fixed obligations, and any acceleration of our debt or other obligations could have important consequences to investors and could: · require a substantial portion of cash flows from operations for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for aircraft purchases, capital expenditures, working capital or general corporate purposes; · make it more difficult for us to pay our debts as they become due during general adverse economic and market industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with less debt; and · result in one or more downgrades in the rating of our indebtedness, which could limit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase the interest rates applicable to the indebtedness. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with our obligations: · a decrease in revenues would result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings; · we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of our fixed costs if revenues decline or costs increase; and · we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to competitive developments and adverse economic conditions. Of our indebtedness, as of February 2, 2009, $824.8 million was secured by certain of our assets, principally aircraft, which may limit the utility of such assets in obtaining additional financing. Our ability to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under our indebtedness, including under our Letter of Credit and Revolving Line of Credit Facility and our 7.0% Convertible Notes and 5.5% Convertible Senior Notes, will be dependent on our cash flows and future liquidity. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to repay such borrowings. Likewise, our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our contractual obligations will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which will in turn depend on, among other things, the success of our current business strategy, whether fuel prices continue at current prices levels and/or further increase or decrease, further weakening or improvement in the U.S. economy, as well as general economic and political conditions. A failure to pay our fixed costs or a breach of our contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card proceeds by one or more credit card processors, and the exercise of remedies of our creditors and lessors. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments or otherwise cover our fixed costs, which would likely have a material adverse impact on us and on our ability to sustain operations. 18 Covenants in our existing debt instruments and potential future indebtedness could limit how we conduct our business, which could affect our long-term growth potential. A failure by us to comply with any of our existing or prospective restrictions could result in acceleration of the repayment terms of our existing or potential future debt. Were this to occur, we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient cash to pay our accelerated indebtedness. Certain of our existing debt instruments and financing agreements contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: · pay dividends and/or other distributions; · incur additional indebtedness; · dispose of certain assets without application of the proceeds in one or more specified ways; and · enter into mergers, consolidations or other business combinations. As a result of these restrictive covenants, we may be limited in how we conduct business, and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns, to compete effectively, or to take advantage of new business opportunities. This may affect our ability to generate revenues and make profits. Our failure to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our Letter of Credit and Revolving Line of Credit Facility, our indentures, leases, other financing agreements, and our aircraft purchase agreements could lead to a default under the terms of those agreements. If such a default occurs, the other parties to these agreements could declare all amounts borrowed and all amounts due under other instruments, which contain provisions for cross-acceleration or cross-default, due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make payments on our debt, meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, or be able to find additional alternative financing on favorable or acceptable terms or sustain operations. Our business is, and will continue to be, dependent on the general availability of aircraft fuel. Due to the effect of political and economic events on the availability of oil, the future availability of aircraft fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, political disruptions, or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in government policy concerning the production, transportation, or marketing of aircraft fuel, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages in the future. Adverse changes in the availability of, or increases in demand for, oil in general and jet fuel in particular likely would result in increased fuel prices. Our operations are, and will continue to be, largely dependent upon the availability of fuel in the Gulf Coast area. Our operations are largely concentrated in the Southeast United States with Atlanta being the highest volume fueling point in our system. In addition, over 80 percent of our fuel contracts are based on prices of jet fuel produced in the Gulf Coast area. Any disruption to the oil production or refinery capacity in the Gulf Coast, as a result of weather or any other disaster could, among other potential effects, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, not only in East Coast routes but across our network due to disruptions in supply of jet fuel, dramatic escalations in the costs of jet fuel, and/or the failure of fuel providers to perform under our fuel arrangements. We endeavor to manage and mitigate the risks of changes in aviation fuel prices, where we believe appropriate, by entering into hedging arrangements. We do not enter into fuel hedge contracts for speculative purposes. To the extent we do not hedge our aviation fuel risk or correspondingly adjust our fare levels, fluctuations in the market prices of jet fuel will have the effect of reducing or increasing the amount of profit we earn or loss we incur. Conversely, by entering into hedging contracts, we may, in exchange for minimizing the risk of potential cost increases associated with aviation jet fuel costs, also minimize the potential for cost savings associated with decreases in the price of such fuel and, depending on volatility, may subject ourselves to hedging related losses. 19 We typically hedge a portion of our fuel exposure with a portfolio of swaps and various types of options using both crude oil and jet fuel as the underlying commodity. Generally our hedging portfolio contains a variety of compound financial instruments, including sold calls which tend to limit the cash benefit of our hedges if jet fuel and crude oil prices increase beyond the call strike prices. For a further discussion of our hedging activities and our potential exposure and benefits at specified price points, see the discussion and chart with respect to our hedging activities under the heading ITEM 7A. “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK – Aviation Fuel.” While we have generally been able to enter into hedging transactions when we have sought such arrangements, no assurances can be given that our ability to enter into such transactions will not adversely be affected in the future by (i) limited interest in the provision of hedging arrangements by financial or other institutions, and (ii) the inability to procure hedging agreements as the result of some crisis (financial or other) associated with the supply of aviation fuel, political instability in oil producing countries or other developments which have otherwise affected the interest of financial or other institutions in entering into fuel hedging transactions in general. Likewise, we cannot assure you that counterparties to hedging agreements will always perform or that our hedging activities will be successful in materially mitigating the impact of rising fuel costs. Initiatives to address global climate change may increase our costs and adversely affect our business. Efforts to address greenhouse gases, or GHG emissions, and the resulting impacts of such gases on climate change may increase our cost, adversely affect our environmental progress, and result in diminished air travel due to higher costs. Both the aviation industry, in general, and our company in particular, generate green house gas emissions from our utilization of petroleum-based fuel. Although the industry is estimated to be responsible for approximately 2-3% of the world's daily GHG emissions, until recently aviation was one of the fastest growing sources of GHG, primarily due to the growth in flights outside of the United States. Our GHG generation is directly related to our fuel consumption and fuel efficiency. Beginning in 2012, any airline flying into or out of the European Union will be required to join the EU's emissions trading system and buy a permit for their GHG emissions; limited relief is expected to be available for new and certain fast growing carriers. Similar "cap and trade" restrictions have been proposed in the United States. A number of states and environmental organizations have asked the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft and in late 2007, various pieces of legislation, including the Lieberman-Warner Climate Security Act, were introduced in Congress to effectively regulate and tax GHG emissions, including through a cap and trade system. Under certain of such proposed legislation fuel producers would have been required to acquire allowances sufficient to cover the GHG content of the fuel they sell, the cost of which would be expected to be passed along to fuel consumers, including airlines. In the event such U.S. legislation or regulation is promulgated or in the event similar legislation or regulation is promulgated in other existing non-U.S. jurisdictions where we currently operate or where we may operate in the future, our fuel costs likely will increase as a result thereof. We are unable to predict whether any such legislation or regulation would apportion costs between one or more jurisdictions in which we operate and we may be subject to the risks of multiple taxation or permitting requirements from one or more jurisdictions or our costs may be based on our total flight activities regardless of the relationship of our flight operations to operations in the airspace of the applicable regulatory authority. For example, EU regulations may apply to the entire length of trans-Atlantic flights in determining permit costs rather than just that portion of the flight occurring in EU airspace. Under various proposed legislation, emitters may be eligible for credits based on efforts to reduce GHG emissions preceding the effective date of regulating legislation and may also be eligible for statutory credits to reduce the costs of permits in order to mitigate the impact of such regulations on ultimate consumers. Furthermore, funds from permits may be utilized to fund technology research and development activities for certain industries with the goal of reducing GHG emissions by such industries. We can not predict whether the aviation industry in general or our company in particular will have access to offsets, credit for early action, special funding, or directed utilization of permit proceeds to provide funding for aviation research and development or alternative jet fuel research. Similarly, we cannot predict whether particular benefits or exemptions would be available to us or at all based on our status as a low cost carrier, as a new market entrant in a particular market or based on our rate of growth. 20 We rely heavily on technology and automated systems to operate our business, and a failure of these technologies or systems or failures by their operators could harm our business. We depend on technology and automated systems to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservations system, our telecommunication systems, our Web site, our maintenance and engineering systems, our flight scheduling and yield management systems, and other technologies and systems. In order to reduce costs and maintain and enhance customer service, we have automated numerous activities and functions and our integration and interaction requirements for our systems continue to increase as we strive to achieve maximum rational utilization of all of our resources. Virtually all of our customer flight reservations are issued to passengers as electronic confirmations, ticketless or as electronic tickets. We depend on our computerized reservation system to be able to issue, track, and accept this data. In order for our operations to work efficiently, our Web site and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information, and deliver important flight information. While our systems have certain redundancies, substantial or repeated Web site, reservations system, or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services and cause our customers to purchase tickets from another airline. We rely on other automated systems for coordinating maintenance and engineering activities with flight operations and for crew scheduling, flight dispatch, and other operational needs. Disruption in, changes to, or a breach of, these systems could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses, and possibly delay or impede our flight and related operations. Our technologies and systems are subject primarily to three types of risk, internal errors or failures, errors or failures by our vendors, and externally caused failures. Many of these risks are beyond our control. We seek to minimize internal risks through various processes and internal controls, by employing redundant systems, security initiatives and procedures, and disaster recovery plans. We rely on outside vendors and licensors for a variety of technological services, products, and functions critical to our business, including computer reservation system hosting, software design, and software maintenance. Our use of outside vendors increases our exposure to several risks. If one of our major technology or automated systems vendors fails to perform adequately, we may experience increased costs, delays, or negative public perception of our airline. We believe there currently are other available vendors and alternative systems for all of our licensed technologies and outsourced system operations; however, in the event that one or more of our primary technology or systems' vendors goes into bankruptcy, ceases operation or fails to perform as promised, replacement services may not be readily available at competitive rates, or at all. Vendor bankruptcies, unionization, regulatory compliance issues, or significant changes in the competitive marketplace among suppliers could adversely affect vendor services or force us to renegotiate existing agreements on less favorable terms. These events could result in disruptions in our operations or increases in our cost structure. We seek to minimize our vendor risk through a vendor oversight and quality control process that we believe is among the best in the industry. We regularly review the risk profiles of all of our major vendors and assess the criticality of their products and services to our business. We have implemented redundant systems, disaster recovery programs, or contingency plans for all of principal outsourced systems and have redundant, disaster recovery systems for our major outsourced systems. We also require computer code escrow arrangements for all of our major systems which would allow us to operate key systems in the event of a vendor failure. Despite our initiatives, plans and procedures, such measures may not be adequate or implemented properly or sufficiently to prevent business disruption. 21 Despite our plans, programs and procedures, we may be vulnerable to external interruption in technology infrastructure on which we are dependent, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, whether due to large scale events, such as natural disasters, or directed actions, including terrorist attacks and system security attacks seeking to compromise or obtain financial data, infect systems with computer viruses or impair or disrupt functionality through denial of services. Any individual, sustained, or repeated failure or compromise of our technologies and automated systems could result in the loss of or a failure to capture data, negatively affect our customer service, result in increased costs and expenses, or generally cause harm to our business. Increased labor costs, union disputes, employee strikes, and other labor-related disruption may adversely affect our operations. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. A substantial portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our labor agreements generally provide for annual pay rate step increases. We reduced our labor costs in 2008 through both voluntary leaves of absence and early exits; however, we cannot predict whether we will need to reduce our labor costs further in 2009 or whether we will be able to effect any necessary or desirable reductions. If additional reductions are necessary or desirable, we cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain voluntary workforce reductions. We also cannot predict the timing of any voluntary workforce reductions nor can we assure you that we will not need to implement involuntary reductions. Likewise, we cannot predict whether any of our labor groups would agree to voluntary wage and benefit reductions and we cannot predict when any such reductions might be implemented, if at all. We intend to continue to review staffing levels for all other work groups to align staffing with the level of future operations. If fuel prices increase materially from current levels, we may need to effect additional reductions in our work force and/or seek additional wage and benefit concessions. While we believe that we have a competitive advantage in labor costs relative to many of our competitors, many air carriers are seeking or may seek similar reductions and concessions in light of the recent and current operating environment. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our labor costs going forward will remain competitive on even a comparative basis because: our labor agreements may be amended or become amendable and new agreements could have terms with higher labor costs, one or more of our competitors may significantly reduce their labor costs thereby reducing or eliminating comparative advantages as to one or more of such competitors, or our labor costs may increase in connection with potential acquisitions. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the Railway Labor Act, or the RLA. Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements generally contain “amendable dates” rather than expiration dates, and the RLA requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board, or NMB. This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement, or the parties have been released to “self-help” by the NMB. In most circumstances, the RLA prohibits strikes; however, after release by the NMB, carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lockouts. 22 Our pilots are represented by the National Pilots Association, or NPA. The agreement with our pilots became amendable in 2005 and is currently in mediation under the auspices of the NMB. Our flight attendants are represented by the Association of Flight Attendants, or AFA. The agreement with our flight attendants became amendable in December 2008. Negotiations on proposed amendments began in early 2008 and meetings are scheduled to continue into 2009. Our dispatchers are represented by the Transport Workers Union, or TWU, and the agreement with our dispatchers became amendable in January 2009. We have four separate agreements with employee groups represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, or IBT. The agreement with our maintenance technicians and inspectors becomes amendable in October 2009. The agreement with our technical training instructors becomes amendable in March 2010. The agreement with our stores clerks becomes amendable in June 2010. Finally, the agreement with our ground service equipment employees becomes amendable in September 2011. While we believe that our relations with labor are generally favorable, any strike or labor dispute with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. The need for work force reductions and wage and benefit concessions in the current adverse operating environment may have an adverse effect on our labor relations and employee morale. Finally, the outcome of our collective bargaining negotiations cannot presently be determined and are complicated by the current adverse operating environment. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages. If we incur problems with any of our third party airport services providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. We conduct complete ground handling services at 32 of the 57 airports we serve, including at our Atlanta hub. Ground handling services are provided by third parties at the remaining 25 airports and typically are of three types: above-wing only, under-wing only and complete ground handling. Above-wing services include, but are not limited, to aircraft cleaning and food and beverage services. Under-wing ground handling services include, but are not limited to, directing the aircraft into and out of the gate, baggage loading and unloading, lavatory and water servicing, de-icing and certain other services. Complete ground handling consists of public contact (at the ticket counter, gate and baggage service office) and under-wing services combined. Operations not conducted by our employees are contracted to other air carriers, ground handling companies, or fixed-base operators with such operations overseen by our employees. Our reliance on third party service providers will continue in the foreseeable future and may result in the relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of all of our outsourced ground handling operations. Although we do not anticipate any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of our existing contract services, problems in connection with such third party services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is and will continue to be subject to weather factors and seasonal variations in airline travel, which cause results to fluctuate. Our operations will continue to be vulnerable to weather conditions in different parts of our network that could disrupt service, create air traffic control problems, decrease revenue and increase costs, such as during hurricane season in the Southeast United States, and, as our operations in the Midwest and Northeast United States expand, snow and severe winter weather in such regions. Air travel tends to be seasonal. The second quarter tends to be our strongest revenue quarter. Our results of operations reflect weather factors and seasonality, and therefore quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of those for an entire year and the prior results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. In addition, our dependence on a primary hub and on a route network operating largely on the East Coast makes us more susceptible to adverse weather conditions and other traffic delays along the East Coast than some of our competitors that may be better able to spread these traffic risks over larger route networks. 23 We are subject to various risks as a result of our fleet concentration in two fleet types. As of February 2, 2009, we have 86 B717 aircraft and 50 B737 aircraft in our fleet. Because fewer carriers operate B717 aircraft, FAA actions to ground that aircraft generally (if actual or suspected defects were discovered in the future unique to that aircraft) would have a more pronounced effect on us. Also, because Boeing discontinued the production of B717 aircraft in 2006, we expect to experience increased costs in later years in connection with parts acquisition and/or maintenance for such aircraft than we would likely incur if such aircraft were still in production. Our maintenance costs are expected to increase. Our recent maintenance expenses have been lower than what we expect to incur in the future because of the relatively young age of our B717 and B737 aircraft fleet. Our maintenance costs are expected to increase as these aircraft age and come off the manufacturer’s warranty. Several of our maintenance contracts with third party vendors also provide for annual contractual increases, either based on an inflation-index or a fixed amount. Our reputation and financial results could be negatively affected in the event of a major aircraft accident. An accident involving one of our aircraft could involve not only repair or replacement of the damaged aircraft and our consequent temporary or permanent loss from service, but also significant potential claims by passengers and others. Moreover, any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that our aircraft are less safe or reliable than other airlines, and that could have a negative effect on our business. The occurrence of one or more incidents or accidents involving our aircraft could have a material adverse effect on the public’s perception of us and our future operations. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance on each of our aircraft. We currently maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type consistent with industry practice. Although we currently believe our insurance coverage is adequate, the amount of such coverage may be changed in the future or we may be forced to bear substantial losses from accidents. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FAA, the DOT, and other governmental agencies, compliance with which could cause us to incur increased costs and negatively affect our business and financial results. We and airlines in general, are subject to a wide range of governmental regulation, including regulation by the FAA. A modification, suspension, or revocation of any of our FAA authorizations or certificates could adversely impact our business. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws and the FAA has issued a number of maintenance directives and other regulations. These requirements impose substantial costs to airlines. Additional laws and regulations have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues by imposing additional requirements or restrictions on operations. Laws and regulations have also been considered that would prohibit or restrict the ownership and/or transfer of airline routes or takeoff and landing slots. Also, the availability of international routes to United States carriers is regulated by treaties and related agreements between the United States and foreign governments that may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be available. We cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our operating costs, or our ability to conduct existing or future operations outside of the United States. We cannot predict what laws and regulations may be adopted or their impact, and we cannot guarantee that laws or regulations currently proposed or enacted in the future will not adversely affect us. 24 Increases in insurance costs or reduction in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly. Likewise, the ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices will remain uncertain. Pursuant to the Airline Transportation and System Stabilization Act, the federal government stepped in to provide supplemental third party war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers for renewable 60-day periods, at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates and for levels of coverage not available in the commercial market. In November 2002, Congress passed the Homeland Security Act of 2002, which mandated the federal government to provide third party, passenger, and hull war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers through August 31, 2003. Pursuant to legislation under a variety of Federal acts, Congress has further extended the government’s mandate to provide war-risk insurance. During 2008, the coverage was extended in six-month increments. For 2009, coverage has initially been extended in a three-month increment. Currently, we have received certification of coverage through March 31, 2009. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war-risk insurance or such insurance might not be available at all. Because of the competitive pressures in the industry, the ability to pass along additional insurance costs to passengers may be limited. As a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could harm earnings. Any coverage that might be available to us through commercial aviation insurers also could have substantially less desirable terms, and might not be adequate to protect our risk, which could harm our business. Future acts of terrorism or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could adversely affect the airline industry. Even if not directed at the airline industry, a future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of United States military involvement overseas could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, the airline industry would likely experience significantly reduced demand. We cannot assure you that such actions, or consequences resulting from such actions, will not materially harm our business or the airline industry generally. Certain major airlines have reduced their cost structures reducing our competitive cost advantage. Since 2001, as a result of slower general economic conditions, the high price of fuel, and intense competition, the airline industry experienced record financial losses. In response to the adverse financial results the airline industry has experienced, airlines have taken actions in an effort to reduce losses by, reducing employee headcount, limiting service offerings, renegotiating labor contracts, restructuring through the bankruptcy process, and reconfiguring flight schedules, as well as other efficiency and cost-cutting measures. While our cost advantage remains significant, these changes have reduced our cost advantage over certain airlines, and additional cost reductions by such airlines could further reduce our cost advantage. The airline industry is intensely competitive and some of our competitors have greater financial resources. The airline industry in general and the low-fare sector in particular, is highly competitive. Our competitors include other major domestic airlines as well as foreign, regional, and new entrant airlines, some of which will have more financial resources and/or could have lower cost structures than us, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. In most of the markets which we currently serve, and in most of the markets which we expect to serve within the coming year, we compete or expect to compete with at least one other low-cost air carrier and one or more major legacy carriers. Our revenues are, and will continue to be, sensitive to numerous competitive factors, and the actions of other carriers in the areas of pricing, scheduling, and promotions, all of which can have a substantial adverse impact on individual airline and overall industry revenues. These factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines, under financial stress or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. In 2008, according to published reports, approximately twenty-nine, predominantly smaller, air carriers, including five, predominantly smaller, U.S. domestic air carriers, filed proceedings under applicable U.S. or non-U.S. bankruptcy or insolvency laws or otherwise ceased operations, with the majority of such U.S. and non-U.S. carriers liquidating rather than seeking to reorganize. We may face greater competition in the future from existing and new competitors. Any increased competition could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. 25 If we lose key senior management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our performance depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our members of senior management. These executives have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business. We will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management-level employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future. We may not realize the full value of our intangible assets or our long-lived assets causing us to record impairments that may negatively affect our results of operations. In accordance with Statement of Accounting Standards No. 142 (SFAS 142), Goodwill and Other Intangibles Assets, and Statement of Accounting Standards No. 144 (SFAS 144), Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, we are required to test certain of our assets for impairment of value on an annual basis, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Because current adverse industry conditions and recent operating losses are indicators that our intangible assets may be impaired, we performed an interim impairment test of our goodwill, and certain of our long-lived assets (principally aircraft and related spare engines and spare parts) in mid-2008. Factors deemed by management to be indicators of potential impairment triggering events included record high fuel prices, significant losses incurred in the first and second quarters of 2008, a softening U.S. economy, and a significant decrease in the fair value of our outstanding equity and debt securities during 2008, including a decline in the market price of our common stock relative to the net book value per share of our common stock. As a result of this impairment testing, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of approximately $8.4 million in 2008. We performed the annual impairment test of the financial statement carrying value of our trade name and trademarks which test indicated that there was not an impairment. However, we still have approximately $1.2 billion of operating property and equipment and $21.6 million of intangible assets that could be subject to impairment. We may be required to recognize additional impairments in the future due to, among other factors, continuing operating losses, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, the decline in our market capitalization and in the fair value of our debt securities, the uncertain economic environment, and other uncertainties. We cannot assure you that a material impairment charge related to our intangible assets or tangible assets, including aircraft, will not occur in a future period. The value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in the market for these aircraft. Such changes could result in a greater supply and lower demand for certain aircraft types as other carriers are selling and/or grounding aircraft. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations in the period of recognition. See ITEM 7. “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” 26 Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. At December 31, 2008, we had estimated net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of $428.0 million for federal income tax purposes that expire beginning in 2017 and continuing through 2028. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an “ownership change.” In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. In the event of an ownership change, utilization of our NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382 determined by multiplying the aggregate value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate (which was 5.4% for as of December 31, 2008). Any unused NOLs in excess of the annual limitation may be carried over to later years. Based on analysis that we performed, we believe we have not experienced a change in ownership as defined by Section 382, and, therefore, our NOLs are not currently under any Section 382 limitation. As a result of our common stock trading at depressed market prices in the last year (relative to the prices at which our stock has generally traded during the previous three-year period), the costs associated with acquiring a sufficient number of shares of our common stock to become a holder of 5% or more of the outstanding shares has decreased significantly. This decline in the cost of reaching the 5% ownership threshold may increase the likelihood that we will experience an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382, as increases in share holdings by, or that result in a person becoming, a holder of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock are aggregated for purposes of determining whether such a change has occurred. Although we cannot currently predict whether or when such an “ownership change” may occur, if we were to experience an ownership change under current conditions, our annual NOL utilization could be significantly limited. The imposition of this limitation on our ability to use our NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitation were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. In addition, depending on the market value of our common stock at the time of any such ownership change, we may be required to recognize a significant non-cash tax charge, the amount of which we cannot estimate at this time. 27 Certain Risk Factors Relating to Our Securities Our securities have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the air carrier industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by rapid and all time high fuel prices and general macroeconomic conditions, especially with regard to the housing and financial industries. We may incur substantially more debt or take other actions that may affect our ability to satisfy our existing debt obligations including under our 7% Convertible Notes and under our 5.5% Convertible Senior Notes (collectively, the “Notes”). We are not restricted under the terms of the Notes or the respective indentures for the Notes from incurring substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness or indebtedness at the subsidiary level, to which the Notes would be structurally subordinated. In addition, the limited covenants applicable to the Notes do not require us to achieve or maintain any minimum financial results relating to our financial position or results of operations. The governing indentures do not contain any restrictive covenants limiting our ability to pay dividends, make any payments on junior or other indebtedness, or otherwise limit our financial condition. Our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the Notes could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the Notes when due, and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of cash flow to fund our operations, working capital and capital expenditures. We may not have the ability to repurchase our 5.5% Convertible Senior Notes in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as required by the indenture governing the notes. Holders of our 5.5% Convertible Senior Notes have the right to require us to repurchase the notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase such notes in cash or to make the required repayment at such time or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. A fundamental change may also constitute an event of default under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. Our ability to repurchase our 5.5% Convertible Senior Notes in cash may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. Our failure to repurchase our 5.5% Convertible Senior Notes when required would result in an event of default with respect to such notes and could result in a cross default with respect to certain of our indebtedness. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock, and therefore the price of the Notes, may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the Notes or the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. From January 1, 2007 through February 2, 2009, the sale price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange ranged from $1.28 to $13.09 per share, and the last reported sale price of our common stock on February 2, 2009 was $4.11 per share. 28 The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors in addition to the factors discussed in these risk factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond our control, include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; · success of our operating, growth and high priced fuel strategies; · investor anticipation of competitive and industry threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; · operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies or companies investors may deem comparable to us; · news reports relating to trends in our industry or general economic conditions; and · realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors. In addition, the stock market can experience extreme volatility that often may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Because the Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of our Notes. Holders who receive common stock upon conversion also will be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed prices of our common stock. Also, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling in our common stock by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could depress the price of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of the Notes could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share in the future. If our stock price fluctuates, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of airline companies have been extremely volatile, and may reflect fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause purchasers of our common stock to incur substantial losses. Investors in our common stock may experience future dilution. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for, our common stock in transactions that may be dilutive to existing holders of our common stock. The holders of our 7% Notes have certain redemption rights which become exercisable in 2010. We may elect to exercise rights to pay the redemption price of our 7% Notes in shares of our common stock which could result in the issuance of a significant number of additional shares. The conversion ratio of our 5.5% Notes is subject to increase in connection with a Make Whole Fundamental Change as defined in the indenture governing such notes. In connection with our Letter of Credit and Revolving Line of Credit Facility, we issued warrants to purchase approximately 4.7 million shares of our common stock for $4.49 per share. The number of shares issuable pursuant to such warrants as well as the shares of common stock issuable upon a conversion of our Notes are subject to adjustments for certain dilutive events as defined in the warrant agreement and the respective Notes indentures. The issuance and sale of shares pursuant to our warrants and Notes may result in substantial dilution to the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock. The sale of such shares also has potential to cause significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This is particularly the case if the shares being placed into the market exceed the market's ability to absorb the increased outstanding stock. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This could present an opportunity for short sellers to contribute to a further decline of our stock price. If there are significant short sales of our stock, the price decline that would result from such activity likely would cause the share price to decline, which, in turn, may cause persons who actually hold our stock to sell their shares thereby contributing to a further share price decline of our common stock in the market. 29 Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our Notes and our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public markets, including in an offering of our common stock, could depress the market price of the Notes, our common stock, or both, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock or the value of the Notes. The price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may occur involving our common stock. This hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the market price of the Notes. Our anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change of control, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock or our securities convertible into common stock. The existence of some provisions in our corporate documents and Nevada law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock or the price of the Notes or our other securities convertible into common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain some provisions that may make the acquisition of control more difficult, including provisions relating to the nomination, election, and removal of directors, the structure of the board of directors, and limitations on actions by our shareholders. In addition, Nevada law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of ten percent or more of our outstanding common stock. 30 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 