ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to our company and our business. You should also read the other information included in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We compete in a highly competitive market with limited barriers to entry and significant pricing pressures. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully compete. The U.S. IT staffing services market is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service and specialized staffing agencies, systems integrators, computer systems consultants, search firms and other providers of staffing and consulting services. Although the majority of our competitors are smaller than we are, a number of competitors have greater marketing and financial resources than us. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into our markets and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, competition from new entrants into our markets. We expect that the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or maintain or increase gross margins, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, from time to time we experience pressure from our clients to reduce price levels, and during these periods we may face increased competitive pricing pressures. Competition may also affect our ability to recruit the personnel necessary to fill our clients’ needs. We also face the risk that certain of our current and prospective clients will decide to provide similar services internally. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully compete. Any economic downturn, or the perception that such a downturn is possible, may cause our revenues to decline and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by local, regional and global economic conditions. Since demand for staffing services is sensitive to changes, as well as perceived changes, in the level of economic activity, our business may suffer during economic downturns. As economic activity slows down, or companies believe that a decline in economic activity is possible, companies frequently cancel, reduce or defer capital investments in new technology systems and platforms and tend to reduce their use of temporary employees and permanent placement services before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees, resulting in decreased demand for staffing services. Also, as businesses reduce their hiring of permanent employees, revenue from our permanent placement services is adversely affected. As a result, any significant economic downturn, or the perception that a downturn is possible, could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain current levels of billable hours and bill rates and control our costs. Our profit margins, and therefore our profitability, are largely dependent on the number of hours billed for our services, utilization rates, the bill rates we charge for these services and the pay rates of our consultants. Accordingly, if we are unable to maintain these amounts at current levels, our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. Our bill rates are affected by a number of considerations, including: • our clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services; • competition, including pricing policies of our competitors; and • general economic conditions. 10 Table of Contents Our billable hours are affected by various factors, including: • the demand for IT staffing services; • the number of billing days in any period; • the quality and scope of our services; • seasonal trends, primarily as a result of holidays, vacations and inclement weather; • our ability to recruit new consultants to fill open orders; • our ability to transition consultants from completed assignments to new engagements; • our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriately balanced and sized workforce; and • our ability to manage consultant turnover. Our pay rates are affected primarily by the supply of and demand for skilled U.S.-based consultants. During periods when demand for consultants exceeds the supply, pay rates may increase. Some of our costs, such as office rents, are fixed in the short term, which limits our ability to reduce costs in periods of declining revenues. Our current and future cost-management initiatives may not be sufficient to maintain our margins as our revenue varies. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified billable consultants, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to attract and retain the services of qualified billable consultants who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to meet our clients’ specific needs. We are required to continually evaluate, upgrade and supplement our staff in each of our markets to keep pace with changing client needs and technologies and to fill new positions. The IT staffing industry in particular has high turnover rates and is affected by the supply of and demand for IT professionals. This has resulted in intense competition for IT professionals, and we expect such competition to continue. Our customers may also hire our consultants, and direct hiring by customers adversely affects our turnover rate as well. In addition, our consultants’ loyalty to us may have been harmed by our decreasing pay rates in order to preserve our profit margin in the previous market downturn, which may adversely affect our competitive position. Certain of our IT operations recruit consultants who require H-1B visas, and U.S. immigration policy currently restricts the number of new H-1B petitions that may be granted in each fiscal year. Our failure to attract and retain the services of consultants, or an increase in the turnover rate among our consultants, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If a supply of qualified consultants, particularly IT professionals, is not available to us in sufficient numbers or on economic terms that are, or will continue to be, acceptable to us, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on key personnel, and the loss of the services of one or more of our senior management or a significant portion of our local management personnel could weaken our management team and our ability to deliver quality services and could adversely affect our business. Our operations historically have been, and continue to be, dependent on the efforts of our executive officers and senior management. In addition, we are dependent on the performance and productivity of our respective regional operations executives, local managing directors and field personnel. The loss of one or more of our senior management or a significant portion of our management team could have an adverse effect on our operations, including our ability to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions. Our ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of services rendered by branch managerial personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees to perform these services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our dependence on large customers and the risks we assume under our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Our 15 largest customers represented approximately 37% of our revenues in 2007. Generally, we do not provide services to our customers under long-term contracts. If one or more of our large customers terminated an existing contract or substantially reduced the services they purchase from us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, large customers, including those with preferred supplier arrangements, increasingly have been seeking pricing discounts, rebates or other pricing concessions in exchange for higher volumes of business or maintaining existing levels of business. Furthermore, we may be required to accept less favorable terms regarding risk allocation, including assuming obligations to indemnify our clients for damages sustained in connection with the provision of our services. Additionally, we regularly evaluate the 11 Table of Contents creditworthiness of our customers and continuously monitor accounts but typically we do not require collateral. Our allowance for doubtful accounts is based on an evaluation of the collectibility of specific accounts and on historical experience. These factors may potentially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our failure to achieve our strategic goal of shifting more of our business into the IT solutions area could adversely impact our growth rate and profitability. As market factors continue to pressure our revenue growth and margins in the IT staffing area, we have developed a strategy of shifting more of our business mix into the higher growth and higher margin solutions areas to complement our core business. We have committed resources and management attention to our managed solutions group, which currently offers vendor management services, applications development and other consulting services with emphasis on business intelligence, SAS, ERP, infrastructure data solutions and globalization and localization services. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in our strategy of shifting more of our business mix into these areas, or into other areas within the solutions sector of the IT services industries. Our failure to achieve this strategic objective could adversely impact our growth rate and profitability. Factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. Our business strategy includes increasing our market share and presence in the IT staffing and project solutions sectors through strategic acquisitions of companies and assets that complement or enhance our business. We expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have greater financial resources or access to financing on more favorable terms than us. This competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. We regularly evaluate opportunities for acquisitions that may complement or enhance our business. These acquisitions, if completed, may involve numerous risks, including: • potential loss of key employees or clients of acquired companies; • difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into a single business; • diversion of management attention from existing operations; and • assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. These acquisitions may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence and integration expenses. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may suffer losses due to the conduct of our employees or our clients’ employees during staffing assignments. We employ and place people generally in the workplaces of other businesses. Attendant risks of this activity include possible claims of discrimination and harassment, employment of illegal aliens, violations of wage and hour requirements, errors and omissions of temporary employees, particularly of professionals, misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other criminal activity or torts and other similar claims. In some instances we have agreed to indemnify our clients against some or all of the foregoing matters. We will be responsible for these indemnification obligations, to the extent they remain in effect, and may in the future agree to provide similar indemnities to some of our prospective clients. In certain circumstances, we may be held responsible for the actions at a workplace of persons not under our direct control. Although historically we have not suffered any material losses in this area, there can be no assurance that we will not experience such losses in the future or that our insurance, if any, will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover any such liability. The failure of any of our employees or personnel to observe our policies and guidelines, relevant client policies and guidelines, or applicable federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations, and other circumstances that cannot be predicted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additional government regulation and rising health care and unemployment insurance costs and taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are required to pay a number of federal, state and local payroll and related costs, including unemployment and other taxes and insurance, workers’ compensation, FICA and Medicare, among others, for our employees. We also provide various benefits to our employees, including health insurance. Significant increases in the effective rates of any payroll-related costs would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations unless we can pass them along to our customers. Our costs could also increase if health care reforms expand the scope of mandated benefits or employee coverage or if regulators impose additional requirements and restrictions related to the placement of personnel. We generally seek to increase fees charged to our clients to cover increases in health care, unemployment and other direct costs of services, but our ability to pass these costs to our clients over the last several years has diminished. There can 12 Table of Contents be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our clients in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount if these expenses continue to rise. There is also no assurance that we will be able to adapt to future regulatory changes made by the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Labor or other state and federal regulatory agencies. Our inability to increase our fees or adapt to future regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors and fraud, or in making all material information known in a timely manner to management. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within COMSYS have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our strategic decision not to pursue a broadbased offshore strategy may adversely impact our revenue growth and profitability. In the past few years, more companies are using, or are considering using, low cost “offshore” outsourcing centers, particularly in India, to perform technology related work and projects. This trend has contributed to the slowing growth in domestic IT staff augmentation revenue as well as on-site solutions oriented projects. We have strategic alliances with Indian suppliers to provide our clients with a low cost offshore alternative, but have not, to date, pursued a broadbased offshore strategy. Our strategic decision not to pursue such a broadbased offshore strategy may adversely impact our revenue growth and profitability. We have substantial intangible assets, have incurred significant impairment charges in the past and may incur further charges if there are significant adverse changes to our operating results or outlook. Our intangible assets consist of goodwill and customer base intangibles resulting from acquisitions of businesses from unrelated third parties for cash and other consideration. We have accounted for these acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting, with the assets and liabilities of the businesses acquired recorded at their estimated fair values as of the dates of the acquisitions. Goodwill in an amount equal to the excess of cost over fair value of the net assets acquired has been recorded at historical cost. Our other intangible assets consist mainly of customer lists. We have adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”), which prohibits the amortization of goodwill and requires that goodwill and other intangible assets be tested annually for impairment. We perform these tests on an annual basis or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the asset might be impaired, and any significant adverse changes in our expected future operating results or outlook would likely result in impairment of the affected intangible assets that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse results in tax audits could require significant cash expenditures or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We are subject to periodic federal, state and local income tax audits for various tax years. Although we attempt to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by the taxing authorities as the result of an audit could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may be subject to lawsuits and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A number of lawsuits and claims are pending against us, and additional claims and lawsuits may arise in the future. Litigation is inherently uncertain. If an unfavorable ruling or outcome were to occur, such event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Concentration of services in metropolitan areas may adversely affect our revenues in the event of extraordinary events. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from services provided in major metropolitan areas. A terrorist attack, such as that of September 11, 2001, or other extraordinary events in any of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We depend on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning of information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems are used in every aspect of our daily operations, most significantly in the identification and matching of staffing resources to client assignments and in the customer billing and consultant payment functions. Our systems are vulnerable to natural disasters, fire, terrorist acts, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, computer viruses and other similar events. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, we would have to accomplish these functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, maintain billing and client records reliably and bill for services efficiently. In addition, we depend on third party vendors for certain functions whose future performance and reliability we cannot control. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations and adversely affect our business and financial condition. As of December 30, 2007, our total debt was approximately $71.9 million, consisting of $66.9 million under a revolving line of credit and a $5.0 million senior term loan. Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. Our outstanding debt is subject to a borrowing base, and our lenders have substantial discretion to impose various reserves against it from time to time. Our outstanding debt bears interest at a variable rate, subjecting us to interest rate risk. Further, we use a substantial portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest on our debt instead of other corporate purposes. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. Our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payment of interest and principal on our debt in the future, and any such alternative measures may not be successful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business and financial condition. Restrictive financing covenants limit the discretion of our management and may inhibit our operating flexibility. Our credit facilities contain a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • repurchase shares; • declare or pay dividends and other distributions; • incur liens; • make capital expenditures; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • repay debt; and • dispose of property. In addition, under our credit facilities, we are required to satisfy a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum total leverage ratio. A breach of any covenants governing our debt would permit the acceleration of the related debt and potentially other indebtedness under cross-default provisions, which could harm our business and financial 14 Table of Contents condition. These restrictions may place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not required to operate under such restrictions or that are subject to less stringent restrictive covenants. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and satisfy our other liquidity needs. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund our working capital requirements and other liquidity needs will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To a certain extent, this ability is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our revolving line of credit or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to successfully execute our business strategy, pay our indebtedness and fund our other liquidity needs. If we are not able to repay our debt obligations on or prior to their maturity, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness. Our revolving line of credit and senior term loan will mature in 2010 and, thus, we may be required to refinance any outstanding amounts under our credit facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to pay our indebtedness or to refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we default on our obligations to pay our indebtedness, or fail to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, our financial condition may be adversely affected by the consequences of any such default. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to make required payments on our revolving line of credit, senior term loan or any future debt which we may incur, or if we fail to comply with the various covenants and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness (including the ratio required under our credit facilities), we could be in default under the terms of such agreements governing our indebtedness. In the event of a default under any of our debt agreements that is not cured or waived, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable. In addition, upon an event of default under our credit facilities that is not cured or waived, we would no longer be able to borrow funds under our credit facilities, which would make it difficult to operate our business. Moreover, because our credit facilities contain, and any future debt agreements into which we may enter may contain, customary cross-default provisions, an event of default under our credit facilities or any future debt agreements into which we may enter, if not cured or waived, could also permit some or all of our lenders to declare all outstanding amounts to be immediately due and payable. If the amounts outstanding under any of our debt agreements are accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets will be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to our lenders or to our other debt holders. If we are unable to repay or refinance such accelerated amounts, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under our revolving line of credit, could proceed against the collateral securing the debt, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Risks Related to Investment in Our Common Stock Shares of our common stock have been thinly traded in the past and the prices at which our common stock will trade in the future could fluctuate significantly. As of February 29, 2008, there were 20,392,866 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. Although our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market and a trading market exists, the trading volume has not been significant and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained in the future. Our average daily trading volume during the twelve months ended February 29, 2008, was approximately 160,471 shares. As a result of the thin trading market, or “float,” for our stock, the market price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, investors may be unable to liquidate their investment in our stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. The prices at which our common stock will trade in the future could fluctuate significantly. 15 Table of Contents Future sales of shares may adversely affect the market price of our shares. Future sales of our shares, or the availability of shares for future sale, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares at a time and price that you deem appropriate. The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings or our ability to use equity in acquisitions. The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. In addition to lack of liquidity, many factors that are beyond our control may affect the market price and marketability of our shares and may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through equity financings or our ability to use equity in acquisitions. These factors include the following: • general price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets; • changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • changes in regulatory policies or tax laws; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated among a small number of major stockholders that have the ability to exercise significant control over us, and whose interests may differ from the interests of other stockholders. As of February 29, 2008, Amalgamated Gadget, L.P. beneficially owned 19.6% of our outstanding common stock, Wachovia Investors, Inc. beneficially owned 17.6% of our outstanding common stock, Barclays Global Investors NA beneficially owned 5.7% of our outstanding common stock and Inland Partners, L.P. and Links Partners, L.P. collectively beneficially owned 5.6% of our outstanding common stock. As a practical matter, Amalgamated Gadget or Wachovia Investors acting alone or these stockholders acting collectively will be able to exert significant influence over, or determine, the direction taken by us and the outcome of future matters submitted to our stockholders, including the terms of any proposal to acquire us, subject to some limited protections afforded to minority stockholders under our charter. Concentrated ownership of large blocks of our common stock may affect the value of shares held by others and our ability to access public equity markets. Our current degree of share ownership concentration may reduce the market value of common stock held by other investors for several reasons, including the perception of a “market overhang,” which is the existence of a large block of shares readily available for sale that could lead the market to discount the value of shares held by other investors. We may need to access the public equity markets to secure additional capital to repay debt, pursue our acquisition strategy or meet other financial needs. Our registration obligations to our significant stockholders could limit our ability or make it more difficult for us to raise funds through common stock offerings upon desirable terms or when required. Our failure to raise additional capital when required could: • restrict growth, both internally and through acquisitions; • inhibit our ability to invest in technology and other products and services that we may need; and • adversely affect our ability to compete in our markets. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our stockholders. We have not historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, and we currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. In addition, the terms of our credit facilities prohibit us from paying dividends and making other distributions. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur, will provide a return to our stockholders. Also, holders of warrants to purchase our common stock and holders of unvested restricted stock also participate in dividend payments. As a result, any dividend payments must be allocated to warrant holders and unvested restricted stock holders, as well as common stock holders. 16 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation contains certain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of COMSYS. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the power to determine the price and terms of any preferred stock. The ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval could deter or delay unsolicited changes of control by discouraging open market purchases of new common stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for our common stock. Discouraging open market purchases may be disadvantageous to our stockholders who may otherwise desire to participate in a transaction in which they would receive a premium for their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 