ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risk factors set forth elsewhere in this annual report, including, without limitation, in Items 1, 7, 7a, and 9a, investors should carefully consider the following risk factors before making investment decisions regarding our securities. We have a significant amount of aircraft related fixed obligations that could impair our ability to make principal and interest payments on our debt obligations and lease payments on our lease obligations. We have significant obligations including debt and lease obligations related to aircraft purchase commitments, aircraft delivery obligations and aircraft leases, debt and lease obligations for operating facilities, including existing facilities and planned new facilities, and other cash obligations including future funding obligations for other potential acquisitions. Our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $1.06 billion, of which $919.9 million was aircraft related. Our debt service obligations with respect to our existing or increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest for our financing obligations depends on our future performance and financial results. These results are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are, to some extent, beyond our control. The amount of our existing debt, and other fixed obligations, and potential increases in the amount of our debt and other fixed obligations could have important consequences to investors and could: • require a substantial portion of cash flows from operations for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for aircraft purchases, capital expenditures, working capital or general corporate purposes; • make it more difficult for us to pay our debts as they become due during general adverse economic and market industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with less debt; and • result in a downgrade in the rating of either our existing indebtedness or future indebtedness, which could limit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase the interest rates applicable to the indebtedness. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with our existing obligations: • a decrease in revenues would result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings; • we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of our fixed costs if revenues decline or costs increase; and • we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to competitive developments and adverse economic conditions. Of our existing indebtedness, $919.9 million is secured by certain of our assets, principally aircraft, which may limit the utility of such assets in obtaining additional financing. Based upon current levels of operations and anticipated growth, we expect to be able to generate sufficient cash flow to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under our existing indebtedness, including the indenture governing our existing 7% convertible notes, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to repay such borrowings. However, our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our contractual obligations will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which will in turn depend, in part, on general economic and political conditions. A failure to pay our fixed costs or a breach of our contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card proceeds by one or more credit card processors, and the exercise of remedies of our creditors and lessors. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments or otherwise cover our fixed costs. Covenants in our existing debt instruments and potential future indebtedness could limit how we conduct our business, which could affect our long-term growth potential. A failure by us to comply with any of our existing or prospective restrictions could result in acceleration of the repayment terms of our existing or potential future debt. Were this to occur, we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient cash to pay our accelerated indebtedness. Certain of our existing debt instruments and financing agreements contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: • pay dividends and/or other distributions; and • enter into mergers, consolidations or other business combinations. As a result of these restrictive covenants, we may be limited in how we conduct business, and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns, to compete effectively, or to take advantage of new business opportunities. This may affect our ability to generate revenues and make profits. Our failure to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our indentures and other financing agreements could lead to a default under the terms of those agreements. If such a default occurs, the other parties to these agreements could declare all amounts borrowed and all amounts due under other instruments, which contain provisions for cross-acceleration or cross-default, due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make payments on our debt, meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, or be able to find additional alternative financing on favorable or acceptable terms. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our liquidity could be adversely impacted in the event one or more of our credit card processors were to impose or increase existing holdbacks on payments due to us from credit card transactions. We currently have agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by our customers utilizing American Express, Discover and MasterCard/VISA. Credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel because, although the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to us soon after the purchase is completed, the air travel generally occurs after that time, and the processor would have liability if we do not ultimately provide the air travel. Each of our agreements with the organizations that process American Express, Discover, and MasterCard/Visa transactions allows, under specified conditions, the credit card processor to retain cash that such processor otherwise would deliver to us, i.e., a “holdback”. Generally, in all of our agreements, the holdbacks can be imposed at the discretion of the processor upon the occurrence of specified events, including material adverse changes in our financial condition, or if the processor reasonably believes we will be unable to perform our obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with the terms of our credit card agreements and had holdbacks with only two processors, which were in amounts that were not material. A majority of our revenues relate to credit card transactions processed by the MasterCard/Visa processor. Our agreement with the MasterCard/Visa credit card processor contains covenants that permit the processor to holdback cash remittances to us, if the processor determines that there has been a material adverse occurrence or certain other events occur. The amount which the processor may be entitled to withhold varies over time and is up to the estimated liability for future air travel purchased with Visa and MasterCard cards ($145.6 million as of December 31, 2007). As of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with the agreement and no remittances had been withheld. In the event material holdbacks are imposed, our liquidity in the form of unrestricted cash and short-term investment assets would be reduced by the amount of the holdbacks. We believe we have, and will continue to have, alternatives to address any requirement for holdbacks by such processors, including seeking to obtain letters of credit in lieu of accepting a holdback or providing a cash deposit. The agreement with our MasterCard/Visa processor expires December 31, 2008. Our other credit card processing agreements generally have no fixed term but are terminable without cause after 30 days notice and immediately upon the occurrence of various specified adverse events. The inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe we will be able to continue to renew our existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing agreements with other processors, although we can not assure you that we will always have these options in the future should we seek to exercise them. Our business is, and will continue to be, dependent on the availability and price of aircraft fuel. Aircraft fuel is a significant expenditure and, as a percentage of our operating expenses, accounted for 37.0 percent in 2007 and 36.5 percent, and 32.4 percent in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Due to the effect of economic events on the price and availability of oil, the future availability and cost of aircraft fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. Political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in government policy concerning the production, transportation or marketing of aircraft fuel, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages and additional fuel price increases in the future. For 2008, if jet fuel increased $1 per barrel, our fuel expense, before the impact of hedging arrangements, would increase approximately $10.0 million based on current and projected operations. Our operations are, and will continue to be, largely dependent upon the availability of fuel in the Gulf Coast area. Our operations are largely concentrated in the Southeast United States with Atlanta being the highest volume fueling point in our system. In addition, over 79 percent of our fuel contracts are based on prices of jet fuel produced in the Gulf Coast area. Any disruption to the oil production or refinery capacity in the Gulf Coast, as a result of weather or any other disaster could, among other potential effects, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, not only in East Coast routes but across the network due to disruptions in supply of jet fuel, dramatic escalations in the costs of jet fuel, and/or the failure of fuel providers to perform under our fuel arrangements. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We endeavor to manage and mitigate the risks of changes in aviation fuel prices, where we believe appropriate, by entering into hedging arrangements. We do not enter into fuel hedge contracts for speculative purposes. To the extent we do not hedge our aviation fuel risk or correspondingly adjust our fare levels, fluctuations in the market prices of jet fuel will have the effect of reducing or increasing the amount of profit we earn or loss we incur. Conversely, by entering into hedging contracts, we may, in exchange for minimizing the risk of potential cost increases associated with aviation jet fuel costs, also thereby necessarily minimize the potential for cost savings associated with decreases in the price of such fuel. While we have generally been able to enter into hedging transactions when we have sought such arrangements, no assurances can be given that our ability to enter into such transactions will not adversely be affected in the future by (i) limited interest in the provision of hedging arrangements by financial or other institutions, and (ii) the inability to procure hedging agreements as the result of some crisis (financial or other) associated with the supply of aviation fuel, political instability in oil producing countries or other developments which have otherwise affected the interest of financial or other institutions in entering into fuel hedging transactions in general. Likewise, we can not assure you that counter parties to hedging agreements will always perform. For a more detailed discussion of our current aviation fuel hedging activities, please see Item 7A “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK – MARKET RISK SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS AND POSITIONS – AVIATION FUEL. Our business is dependent on technology. We will continue to rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business. Any failure of these systems or the failure to integrate them successfully with any acquired operations could harm our business. We are increasingly dependent on technology initiatives to reduce costs and to maintain and enhance customer service in order to compete in the current business environment. We depend on automated systems to operate our business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and websites. We have made significant investments in our website technology and Bye-Pass ™ check-in kiosks, and related initiatives across the system. The performance and reliability of our technology is critical to our ability to attract and retain customers and our ability to effectively compete. Website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information. Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of services and could cause customers to purchase tickets from another airline. Any internal technology error or failure, or large scale external interruption in technology infrastructure on which we are dependent, such as power, telecommunications or the Internet, may disrupt our technology network, result in the loss of data or the failure to capture data. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of our technology could impact our customer service and result in increased costs and expenses and generally harm our business. Like all companies, our technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. While we have in place and continue to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and adverse financial consequences to our business. Increased labor costs, union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruption may adversely affect our operations. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. A substantial portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our business plan includes assumptions about labor costs. We believe that our labor costs currently are competitive; however, we cannot assure you that our labor costs going forward will remain competitive because: labor agreements may be amended or become amendable, competitors may significantly reduce their labor costs, reducing or eliminating any comparative advantages as to one or more competitors, or labor costs may increase in connection with potential acquisitions. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the Railway Labor Act, or the RLA. Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements generally contain “amendable dates” rather than expiration dates, and the RLA requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board, or NMB. This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement, or the parties have been released to “self-help” by the NMB. Although in most circumstances the RLA prohibits strikes, after release by the NMB, carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our pilots are represented by the National Pilots Association, or NPA. The agreement with our pilots became amendable in 2005 and is currently in mediation under the auspices of the National Mediation Board. AirTran’s flight attendants are represented by the Association of Flight Attendants, or AFA. The agreement with the flight attendants becomes amendable in December 2008. Our dispatchers are represented by the Transport Workers Union, or TWU and the agreement with our dispatchers becomes amendable in January 2009. We have four separate agreements with employee groups represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, or IBT. The agreement with our maintenance technicians and inspectors becomes amendable in October 2009. The agreement with our technical training instructors becomes amendable in March 2010. The agreement with our stores clerks becomes amendable in June 2010. The agreement with our ground service equipment employees becomes amendable in September 2011. While we believe that our relations with labor are generally good, any strike or labor dispute with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. The outcome of our collective bargaining negotiations cannot presently be determined. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages. If we incur problems with any of our third party airport services providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. We conduct complete ground handling services at 33 of the 56 airports we serve, including at our Atlanta hub. Ground handling services provided by third parties at the remaining 23 airports typically are of three types: above-wing only, under-wing only and complete ground handling. Above-wing services include but are not limited to aircraft cleaning and food and beverage services. Under-wing ground handling services include, but are not limited to, directing the aircraft into and out of the gate, baggage loading and unloading, lavatory and water servicing, de-icing and certain other services. Complete ground handling consists of public contact (at the ticket counter, gate and baggage service office) and under-wing services combined. Operations not conducted by our employees are contracted to other air carriers, ground handling companies or fixed-base operators with such operations overseen by our employees. Our reliance on third party service providers will continue in the foreseeable future and may result in the relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of all of our outsourced ground handling operations. Although we do not anticipate any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of our existing contract services, problems in connection with such third party services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is and will continue to be subject to weather factors and seasonal variations in airline travel, which cause results to fluctuate. Our operations will continue to be vulnerable to weather conditions in different parts of our network that could disrupt service, create air traffic control problems, decrease revenue, and increase costs, such as during hurricane season in the Southeast United States, and, as our operations in the Midwest and Northeast United States expand, snow and severe winters in such regions. Air travel tends to be seasonal. The second quarter tends to be our strongest revenue quarter. Our results of operations reflect weather factors and seasonality, and therefore quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of those for an entire year and the prior results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. In addition, our dependence on a primary hub and on a route network operating largely on the East Coast make, and will continue to make, us more susceptible to adverse weather conditions and other traffic delays along the East Coast than some of our competitors that may be better able to spread these traffic risks over larger route networks. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are subject to various risks as a result of our fleet concentration in two fleet types. As of January 1, 2008, we have 87 B717 aircraft and 50 B737 aircraft in our total fleet. Because fewer carriers operate B717 aircraft, FAA actions to ground that aircraft generally (if actual or suspected defects were discovered in the future unique to that aircraft) would have a more singular effect on us. Also, because the manufacturer of the B717 discontinued the production of B717 aircraft in 2006, we expect to experience increased costs in later years in connection with parts acquisition and/or maintenance for such aircraft than we would likely incur if such aircraft were still in production. Our maintenance costs are expected to increase. Our recent maintenance expenses have been lower than what we expect to incur in the future because of the young age of our B717 and B737 aircraft fleet. Our maintenance costs are expected to increase as these aircraft age and come off of manufacturer’s warranty and utilization increases. Our reputation and financial results could be negatively affected in the event of a major aircraft accident. An accident involving one of our aircraft could involve not only repair or replacement of the damaged aircraft and our consequent temporary or permanent loss from service, but also significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. Moreover, any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that our aircraft are less safe or reliable than other airlines, and that could have a negative effect on our business. The occurrence of one or more incidents or accidents involving our aircraft could have a material adverse effect on the public’s perception of us and our future operations. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance on each of our aircraft. We currently maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type consistent with industry practice. Although we currently believe our insurance coverage is adequate, the amount of such coverage may be changed in the future or we may be forced to bear substantial losses from accidents. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FAA, the DOT, and other governmental agencies, compliance with which could cause us to incur increased costs and negatively affect our business and financial results. We, and airlines in general, are subject to a wide range of governmental regulation, including regulation by the FAA. A modification, suspension or revocation of any of the FAA authorizations or certificates of ours could adversely impact our business. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws and the FAA has issued a number of maintenance directives and other regulations. These requirements impose substantial costs to airlines. Additional laws and regulations have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues by imposing additional requirements or restrictions on operations. Laws and regulations have also been considered that would prohibit or restrict the ownership and/or transfer of airline routes or takeoff and landing slots. Also, the availability of international routes to United States carriers is regulated by treaties and related agreements between the United States and foreign governments that may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be available. We cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect our operating costs, or our ability to conduct existing or future operations outside of the United States. We cannot predict what laws and regulations may be adopted or their impact, and we cannot guarantee that laws or regulations currently proposed or enacted in the future will not adversely affect it. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Increases in insurance costs or reduction in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly. Likewise, the ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices will remain uncertain. Pursuant to the Airline Transportation and System Stabilization Act, the federal government stepped in to provide supplemental third-party war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers for renewable 60-day periods, at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates and for levels of coverage not available in the commercial market. In November 2002, Congress passed the Homeland Security Act of 2002, which mandated the federal government to provide third-party, passenger, and hull war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers through August 31, 2003, and which permitted such coverage to be extended by the government through December 31, 2003. The Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act extended the government’s mandate to provide war-risk insurance until December 31, 2004. Pursuant to the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2005, Congress further extended the government’s mandate to provide war-risk insurance until August 31, 2005 at the discretion of the Secretary of Transportation. During 2007, the coverage was extended in six month increments. Currently, we have received certification of coverage through March 31, 2008. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war-risk insurance or such insurance might not be available. Because of the competitive pressures in the industry, the ability to pass along additional insurance costs to passengers may be limited. As a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could harm earnings. Any coverage that might be available to us through commercial aviation insurers also could have substantially less desirable terms, and might not be adequate to protect our risk, which could harm our business. The travel industry, which was materially adversely affected by the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, continues to face on-going security concerns and cost burdens associated with security. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 materially impacted and continue to impact air travel beyond insurance costs. In November 2001, the President signed into law the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, or the Aviation Security Act. This law federalized substantially all aspects of civil aviation security, creating a new Transportation Security Administration, or TSA. Under the Aviation Security Act, substantially all security screeners at airports are now federal employees and significant other elements of airline and airport security are now overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, federal air marshals and federal security screeners. Among other matters, the law mandates improved flight deck security, deployment of federal air marshals onboard flights, improved airport perimeter access security, airline crew security training, enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors, enhanced training and qualifications of security screening personnel, additional provisions of passenger data to U.S. Customs and enhanced background checks. These increased security procedures introduced at airports since the attacks have increased costs to airlines. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Future acts of terrorism or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could adversely affect the airline industry. Even if not directed at the airline industry, a future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of United States military involvement overseas could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, the airline industry would likely experience significantly reduced demand. We cannot assure you that these actions, or consequences resulting from these actions, will not harm our business or the airline industry generally. Certain major airlines have reduced their cost structures reducing AirTran’s competitive cost advantage. Since 2001, as a result of slower general economic conditions, the high price of fuel, and intense competition, the airline industry experienced record financial losses. In response to the adverse financial results the airline industry has experienced, airlines have taken actions in an effort to reduce losses by, reducing employee headcount, limiting service offerings, renegotiating labor contracts, restructuring through the bankruptcy process, and reconfiguring flight schedules, as well as other efficiency and cost-cutting measures. While our cost advantage remains significant, these changes have reduced our cost advantage over certain airlines. To maintain our cost advantage, we strive to reduce our non-fuel operating costs. Although we have reduced non-fuel cost per available seat mile six consecutive years, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve similar reductions in future years or at all. The airline industry is intensely competitive. The airline industry in general and the low-fare sector in particular, is highly competitive. Our competitors include other major domestic airlines as well as foreign, regional and new entrant airlines, some of which will have more financial resources and/or could have lower cost structures than us, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. In most of the markets which we currently serve, and in most of the markets which we expect to serve within the coming year, we compete or expect to compete with at least one other low-cost air carrier and one or more major legacy carriers. Our revenues are, and will continue to be, sensitive to numerous competitive factors, and the actions of other carriers in the areas of pricing, scheduling and promotions, all of which can have a substantial adverse impact on individual airline and overall industry revenues. These factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines, under financial stress or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. We may face greater competition in the future from existing and new competitors. Any increased competition could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. The profitability of our operations are, and will continue to be, influenced by economic conditions as demand for discretionary travel diminishes during economic downturns. The profitability of our operations is influenced by the condition of the United States economy, which may impact the demand for discretionary travel and our competitive pricing position. A substantial portion of our business is discretionary travel, which declines during economic downturns. Airline strategic combinations or industry consolidations could have an impact on our competitive environment in ways yet to be determined. The environment in the airline industry changes from time to time as carriers implement varying strategies in pursuit of profitability, including consolidation to expand operations and increase market strength and entering into global alliance arrangements. Similarly, the merger, bankruptcy or reorganization of one or more of our competitors may result in rapid changes to the identity of our competitors in particular markets, a substantial reduction in the operating costs of our competitors or the entry of new competitors into some or all of the markets we serve or currently are seeking to serve. We are unable to predict exactly what effect, if any, changes in the strategic landscape might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we lose key senior management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our performance depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our members of senior management. These executives have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business. We will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management-level employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors in addition to the factors discussed in these risk factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond our control, include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; • success of our operating and growth strategies; • investor anticipation of competitive and industry threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; • operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and • realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors. In addition, the stock market can experience extreme volatility that often may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change of control, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The existence of some provisions in our corporate documents and Nevada law may delay or prevent a change in control, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain some provisions that may make the acquisition of control more difficult, including provisions relating to the nomination, election and removal of directors, the structure of the board of directors, and limitations on actions by our shareholders. In addition, Nevada law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Factors relating to us and potential acquisitions. We have sought to acquire other carriers, as well as gates and other assets from other carriers. In the event we complete one or more acquisitions we may be subject to a variety of risks. We intend, to the extent possible, to integrate the operations of acquired assets and entities with those of AirTran Airways. Depending on the nature of the acquired entity or operations, integration of acquired operations into our present operations may present substantial difficulties. Even where material difficulties are not anticipated, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter such difficulties in integrating acquired operations with our operations, which may result in a delay or the failure to achieve anticipated synergies, increased costs and failures to achieve increases in earnings or cost savings. The difficulties of combining the operations of acquired companies may include, among other things: • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and an acquired entity; • the consolidation of sales and marketing operations; • the retention of existing customers and attraction of new customers; • the retention of key employees; • employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions in connection with union representation; • employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions in connection with seniority questions with respect to both union and non-union employees; • the consolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures; • the integration and management of the technologies and products of the acquired entity, including the consolidation and integration of computer information systems; • the identification and elimination of redundant and underperforming operations and assets; • costs associated with the termination of assumed contractual obligations and the timing thereof; • diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • the possibility of tax costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of the operations; • the possible need to modify internal controls over financial reporting in order to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated there under; and • loss of customer goodwill. For these reasons, we may fail to successfully complete the integration of an acquired entity, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of an acquired entity. Actual cost savings and synergies which may be achieved from an acquired entity may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate. Other acquisition related risks include risks associated with higher costs or unexpected difficulties or problems with acquired assets or entities including different flight equipment, outdated or incompatible technologies, labor difficulties, or an inability to realize anticipated synergies and efficiencies. Whether within anticipated timeframes or at all, one or more of such acquisition-related risks, if realized, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or operations. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 