Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, some of which are discussed below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in the information incorporated by reference into this report. 8 Table of Contents You should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company faces short-term liquidity risks. On February 5, 2008, the Company’s central distribution facility in Southaven, Mississippi sustained significant damage as a result of strong storms and tornadoes (the ‘‘Southaven Casualty Event’’). During the storm, a significant portion of the Company’s automotive and light truck heat exchange inventory was also destroyed. While the Company does have insurance covering damage to the facility and its contents, as well as any business interruption losses, up to $80 million, this incident has had a significant impact on the Company’s short term cash flow as the Company’s lenders would not give credit to the insurance proceeds in the Borrowing Base (as such term is defined in the Credit Agreement). Under the Credit Agreement, the damage to the inventory and fixed assets resulted in a significant reduction in the Borrowing Base (as such term is defined in the Credit Agreement) because the Borrowing Base definition exc ludes the damaged assets without giving effect to the related insurance proceeds. In order to provide access to funds to rebuild and purchase inventory damaged by the Southaven Casualty Event, the Company entered into a Second Amendment of the Credit Agreement with Silver Point Finance, LLC on March 12, 2008. Pursuant to the Second Amendment, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, the Lenders have agreed to temporarily increase the aggregate principal amount of Revolving B Commitments available to the Company from $25 million to $40 million. Pursuant to the Second Amendment, the Lenders have agreed to permit the Company to borrow funds in excess of the available amounts under the Borrowing Base definition in an amount not to exceed $26 million. The Company is required to reduce this ‘‘Borrowing Base Overadvance Amount’’ (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to zero by May 31, 2008. The Borrowing Base Overadvance Amount of $26 million was reduced to $24.2 million in t he Third Amendment of the Credit Agreement (see Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included herein), which was signed on March 26, 2008. The Company believes that it will be able to achieve the Borrowing Base Overadvance reduction by the May 31, 2008 date through a plan which utilizes a combination of (i) operating results and working capital management; (ii) insurance proceeds; and (iii) additional debt or equity financings. The Company is working with its insurance company through the claims process and has already received a $10 million preliminary advance, which was used to reduce obligations under the Company’s credit facility. The Company’s insurance policy covers losses of property and from business interruption up to $80 million, which the Company believes, should provide more than sufficient coverage with respect to the damages arising from the Southaven Casualty Event. In addition, the Company has hired Jefferies & Company, Inc. to assist in obtaining new debt or equity capital. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such additional funds from the plans noted above or that further Lender accommodations would be available, on acceptable terms or at all, if the Company fails to reduce the Borrowing Base Overadvance Amount to zero by May 31, 2008. If the Company is unable to reduce the Borrowing Base Overadvance Amount to zero by May 31, 2008, the Company will be in violation of a covenant of the Credit Agreement and will be required to negotiate a waiver to cure the default. If the Company were unable to successfully resolve the default with the lender, the entire amount of any indebtedness under the Credit Agreement at that time could become due and payable, at the lender’s discretion. This results in uncertainties concerning the Company’s ability to retire the debt. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. As a result of the uncertainty concerning the Company’s ability to reduce the overadvance to zero by May 31, 2008, the auditors opinion for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes an explanatory paragraph concerning the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 9 Table of Contents Our business is impacted by customer concentration. The Company’s largest customers are AutoZone, which accounted for approximately 10%, 13% and 17% of consolidated net sales for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively and Advance Auto Parts, which accounted for approximately 9%, 8% and 13% of consolidated net sales for 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The loss of one of the major retail customers indicated above could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, if one or more of the Company’s major customers were to initiate bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, it could render a material portion of the Company’s accounts receivable uncollectible or substantially impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. We are facing ongoing competitive pricing pressure. The Company has experienced ongoing pressure from its customers to reduce the prices it charges for its products. This is the result of a number of industry trends, including the impact of offshore suppliers in the marketplace, the consolidated purchasing power of large customers and actions taken by some of our competitors in an effort to ‘‘win over’’ new business. To the extent this pricing pressure continues, it may impact the Company’s operating margins, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. In addition, this pricing pressure makes it more difficult to pass along to customers the effects of rising commodity costs which the Company is facing. We operate in a mature and highly competitive industry. The principal markets in which the Company competes are relatively mature, therefore, future significant volume increases in the Company’s revenues will be dependent upon the Company’s ability to increase market share by displacing sales currently made by its competitors. The Company cannot predict whether it will be able to increase its market share in the markets in which it competes. The Company faces significant competition within each of the markets in which it operates. Some of the Company’s competitors are divisions of larger companies and some are independent companies. In its automotive and light truck heat exchange product lines, the Company believes that it is among the major North American aftermarket manufacturers and that competition is widely distributed. The Company competes with national producers of heat transfer products, internal operations of the OEMs, international and offshore suppliers and, to a lesser extent, local and regional manufacturers. The Company’s primary competition in the temperature control aftermarket includes national producers, offshore suppliers and numerous regional operators. The Company’s principal methods of competition include product design, performance, price, customer service, warranty, product availability and timely delivery. Some of the Company’s competitors may achieve economic advantages such as lower labor and health care costs. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to future liquidity. The future liquidity and ordinary capital needs of the Company excluding the impact of the Southaven Casualty Event, described above, are expected to be met from a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings under the loan agreement with its lenders. However, the Company’s future cash flow may be impacted by a number of factors, including changing market conditions, failure to meet financial covenants under its loan agreement, industry trends lengthening customer payment terms or the discontinuance of currently utilized customer sponsored payment programs. Changes in payment terms to one or more major suppliers could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and future liquidity. The Company currently utilizes customer-sponsored programs administered by financial institutions in order to accelerate the collection of funds and offset the impact of these lengthening customer payment terms. However, there ca n be no assurance that the Company’s customers will continue to make these programs available. In addition, the Company believes that the amount of borrowings available under its loan agreement would not be sufficient to meet the capital needs for major growth initiatives, such as 10 Table of Contents significant acquisitions. If the Company were to implement major new growth initiatives, it would have to seek other sources or forms of capital. No assurance can be given that the Company would be successful in securing such additional sources or forms of capital. We are subject to market risks regarding raw materials. Most of the Company’s products require the use of copper, brass or aluminum. Although copper, brass, aluminum and other primary materials are available from a number of vendors, the Company has chosen to concentrate its sources through supply agreements with a limited number of long-term suppliers. If a supply problem were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. In addition, certain risks may arise in the various commodity markets in which the Company participates. Commodity prices in the copper, brass and aluminum markets are subject to changes based on availability and other factors outside the Company’s control. Copper, brass and aluminum prices have risen significantly in the past several years, and the Company has been generally unable to pass through price increases to its customers in the automotive and light truck aftermarket in order to offset these increases, except in certain markets. A s a result, operating margins have been adversely impacted and the Company has had to look to other cost reduction actions in order to offset the commodity increases. Continued commodity price increases could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent on overall economic factors beyond our control. The overall demand for aftermarket automotive and light truck parts is closely correlated to overall miles driven by vehicle users. Therefore, a substantial increase in fuel prices or a general economic slowdown could adversely impact the demand for the Company’s products. Concerns about inflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and recent international conflicts and terrorist and military actions may result in a downturn in worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the United States. These unfavorable economic conditions may have a negative impact on customer buying habits and market trends. If overall market conditions worsen, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks relating to outsourcing. The Company outsources the supply of certain products from third parties and relies on those third parties to provide products and services on a timely and effective basis. Although the Company closely monitors the performance of these third parties and maintains back-up plans in case third parties are unable to perform as agreed, the Company does not ultimately control the performance of its outsourcing partners. The failure of third-party outsourcing partners to perform as expected or as required by contract could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to properly carry-out its business on a correct and timely basis. We have takeover defense provisions that may inhibit an acquisition of the Company. The Company has certain anti-takeover measures that may affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s certificate of incorporation, its by-laws and Delaware law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of the Company in a transaction not approved by the Company’s board of directors. The Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: • The division of the Company’s board of directors into three classes, including related provisions (1) providing that vacancies on the board may only be filled by remaining board members and directors may only be elected at annual meetings or removed for cause and (2) requiring a vote of holders of 80% of the Company’s voting stock to amend the classified board and related provisions or to remove a director; and • The ability of the Company’s board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of shareholders. 11 Table of Contents The classified board and related provisions described above will expire automatically at the 2009 annual shareholders meeting, and all directors will be elected for one-year terms beginning with that meeting, including directors whose terms otherwise would have expired after that meeting. We are subject to interest rate and foreign currency risks. The Company’s interest expense is sensitive to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2007, borrowings under the Company’s new Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the ‘‘Agreement’’) with Silver Point Finance, LLC. included $17.1 million of revolving credit borrowings at interest rates of 9.896% and 11.0% per annum and a term loan of $49.6 million at an interest rate of 10.125% per annum. As a result of the uncertainties concerning the Company’s ability to reduce the Borrowing Base Overadvance to zero by May 31, 2008 (see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), the outstanding term loan at December 31, 2007 in the amount of $49.6 million has been reclassified from long-term debt to short-term debt in the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. The Company may elect to borrow at a per annum Base Rate (as defined in the Agreement) plus 375 base points or a per annu m LIBOR rate (as defined in the Agreement) plus 475 basis points. As a result of specific events of default, as defined in the Agreement, effective November 30, 2007, the Company is being charged an additional 2% default interest until the events of default are cured or waived. The Second Amendment to the Agreement (the ‘‘Second Amendment’’), signed on March 12, 2008, contained a waiver of the 2007 events of default resulting in the elimination of the default interest, as of the Second Amendment date. The Second Amendment also increased the interest rate the Company must pay on its outstanding indebtedness to the greater of (i) the Adjusted Libor Rate, as defined in the Agreement, plus 8%, or (ii) 12%. Factors outside of the Company’s control cause changes in both the Eurodollar loan rate and the prime rate. The Company has sales and manufacturing facilities in Europe and Mexico. As a result, changes in the foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the economic conditions in Europe and Mexico could favorably or unfavorably affect the Company’s financial results. Factors influencing both foreign currency exchange rates and general economic conditions are outside of the Company’s control. Our business could be subject to environmental liabilities. As is the case with manufacturers of similar products, the Company uses certain hazardous substances in its operations. The Company currently does not anticipate any material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of compliance with Federal, state, local or foreign environmental laws or regulations; however, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of the Company’s business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. We could be subject to material legal proceedings. Various legal actions are pending against or involve the Company in the ordinary course of business with respect to such matters as product liability, casualty, environmental and employment-related claims. While none of the pending actions of this nature are material, there can be no assurance a material action arising in the ordinary course of business will not be asserted in the future. Changes in laws and regulations that affect the governance of public companies have increased our operating expenses and will continue to do so. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies included in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have imposed new duties on us and on our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firm. In order to comply with these new rules, we have internally added staff positions and hired consulting advisory firms to assist us in the process, and we also expect to use additional services of our outside legal counsel, all of which will increase our operating expenses. In particular, we have incurred additional administrative expenses as we implemented Section 404 of the 12 Table of Contents Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on the Company’s internal controls, and these expenses will rise further when our independent registered public accounting firm has to attest to our internal controls. For example, we have incurred significant expenses in connection with the implementation, documentation and testing of our existing control systems and possible establishment of new controls and systems. Management time associated with these compliance efforts necessarily reduces time available for other operating activities, which could adversely affect operating results. If we are unable to achieve full and timely compliance with these regulatory requirements, we could be required to incur additional costs, expend additional management time on remedial efforts and make related public disclosures that could adversely affect our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 