Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, some of which are discussed below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in the information incorporated by reference into this report. You should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 8-K and 10-Q, before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones which we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. The Company faces short-term liquidity risks. On February 5, 2008, our central distribution facility in Southaven, Mississippi sustained significant damage as a result of strong storms and tornadoes (the “Southaven Casualty Event”). During the storm, a significant portion of our automotive and light truck heat exchange inventory was also destroyed. While we had insurance covering damage to the facility and its contents, as well as any business interruption losses, up to $80 million, this incident has had a significant impact on our short term cash flow as our secured lenders would not give credit to the insurance proceeds in the Borrowing Base, as such term is defined in the Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the “Silver Point Agreement”) by and among the Company and certain domestic subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors, the lenders party thereto from time to time (collectively, “the Lenders”), Silver Point Finance, LLC (“Silver Point”), as administrative agent for the Lenders, collateral agent and as lead arranger, and Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (New England) (“Wachovia”), as borrowing base agent. Under the Silver Point Agreement, the damage to the inventory and fixed assets resulted in a significant reduction in the Borrowing Base because the Borrowing Base definition excludes the damaged assets without giving effect to the related insurance proceeds. In order to provide access to funds to rebuild and purchase inventory damaged by the Southaven Casualty Event, a Second Amendment of the Silver Point Agreement was signed on March 12, 2008 (see Note 7). Pursuant to the Second Amendment, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, the Lenders agreed to temporarily increase the aggregate principal amount of Revolving B Commitments available from $25 million to $40 million. Pursuant to the Second Amendment, the Lenders agreed to permit us to borrow funds in excess of the available amounts under the Borrowing Base definition in an amount not to exceed $26 million. We were required to reduce this “Borrowing Base Overadvance Amount”, as defined in the Silver Point Agreement, to zero by May 31, 2008. The Borrowing Base Overadvance Amount of $26 million was reduced to $24.2 million in the Third Amendment of the Silver Point Agreement (see Note 7), which was signed on March 26, 2008. While the Borrowing Base Overadvance reduction was achieved by the May 31, 2008 date through a combination of operating results, working capital management and insurance proceeds, we continue to face significant liquidity constraints. As part of the insurance claim process, a $10.0 million preliminary advance was received during the first quarter of 2008, additional preliminary advances of $24.7 million during the second quarter of 2008 and $17.3 million during the third quarter of 2008, which were used to reduce obligations under the Silver Point Agreement. On July 30, 2008, a global settlement of $52.0 million was reached with our insurance company regarding all damage claims. Of the $52.0 million insurance settlement amount, $25.8 million represents the estimated recovery on inventory damaged by the Southaven Casualty Event, $3.4 million represents the estimated recovery on damaged fixed assets and $22.8 million represents the business interruption reimbursement of margin on lost sales, incremental costs for travel, product procurement and reclamation, incremental customer costs and other items resulting from the tornado, incurred through December 31, 2008. The Company was required by its lenders to make repayments of the term loan, maintain an availability block of between $2.5 million and $5.0 million, and pay fees and expenses from the insurance proceeds resulting in the loss of approximately $20.0 million of liquidity. As a portion of the insurance claim 9 Table of Contents proceeds were used to meet these requirements under the Silver Point Agreement, instead of being used to fund the replacement of inventory destroyed by the tornadoes, we have been forced to extend vendor payables in an effort to maintain short-term cash flow. As a result of extending vendor payables, delays in obtaining inventory required to maintain historic customer line fill levels have been encountered which have had an adverse impact on net sales and the results of operations during 2008 and continue to impact 2009. We are also continuing to work toward raising debt and/or equity to reduce or possibly replace the current Silver Point Credit Agreement and to provide additional working capital as the Silver Point Credit Agreement provides the Company with insufficient liquidity. We are using an investment banking firm to assist in obtaining this new debt or equity capital. To date we have not been able to consummate the desired refinancing, due in part to the current conditions in the financing marketplace, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. The violation of any covenant of the Silver Point Agreement requires the negotiation of a waiver to cure the default. We were able to obtain waivers for the covenant violations at December 31, 2008 with respect to the consolidated and U.S. senior leverage ratio calculations, the amount of NRF operating leases and the explanatory paragraph in the accountants’ opinion. However, if a default, which occurs in the future, could not be successfully resolved with the Lenders, the entire amount of any indebtedness under the Silver Point Agreement at that time could become due and payable, at the Lenders’ discretion. This results in uncertainties concerning our ability to retire the debt. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we were unable to continue as a going concern. As there can be no assurance that additional funds will be obtained from the proposed debt refinancing or that further Lender accommodations would be available, on acceptable terms or at all should there be covenant violations, the remaining balance of the term loan has been classified as short-term debt in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2007, the remaining balance of the term loan had been classified as short-term debt as a result of the uncertainties existing at that time concerning our ability to reduce the Borrowing Base Overadvance Amount to zero by May 31, 2008. As a result of the uncertainties regarding our ability to refinance or otherwise retire the debt outstanding under the Credit Agreement, the auditor’s opinion for the year ended December 31, 2008 included an explanatory paragraph concerning our ability to continue as a going concern. The auditor’s opinion for the year ended December 31, 2007 included an explanatory paragraph concerning our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of the uncertainty concerning our ability to reduce the overadvance to zero by May 31, 2008. Our business is impacted by customer concentration. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 33%, 33%, and 28% of consolidated net sales in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Among these customers, Autozone, accounted for approximately 8%, 10% and 13% of consolidated net sales for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales to Autozone in 2008 and 2007 were lower than in 2006 as we were shipping radiator product to a smaller number of Autozone distribution centers. During the third quarter of 2008, Autozone stopped purchasing radiator product for the remaining distribution centers. However, we continue to supply Autozone distribution centers with heaters and temperature control products as well as radiators on customer direct orders. While the action by Autozone did result in a reduction of net sales, it is not expected to have a material impact on future operating results in part due to cost reduction actions we have taken and the expansion of products manufactured at our facility in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico which are expected to offset any lost contribution margin. The loss of one of the major customers indicated above could result in the implementation of new cost reduction initiatives or other actions in order to avoid a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The five largest customers included in the sales concentration amount above, comprise 43% of trade accounts receivable at December 31, 2008. If one or more of these major customers were to initiate bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, it could 10 Table of Contents render a material portion of our accounts receivable uncollectible or substantially impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are facing ongoing competitive pricing pressure. We are experiencing ongoing pressure from customers to reduce our products’ selling prices. This is the result of a number of industry trends, including the impact of offshore suppliers in the marketplace, the consolidated purchasing power of large customers and actions taken by some of our competitors in an effort to “win over” new business. To the extent this pricing pressure continues, operating margins could be impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, this pricing pressure makes it more difficult to pass along to customers the effects of rising commodity costs experienced during the past several years or to recognize the benefits of declining commodity costs, as applicable. We operate in a mature and highly competitive industry. The principal markets in which we compete are relatively mature, therefore, future increases in net sales attributable to volume will be partially dependent upon our ability to increase market share by displacing sales currently made by competitors. As a result, it is not possible to predict whether we will be able to increase market share in the markets in which we compete. In some cases, we also face significant competition in our markets from divisions of larger companies and independent companies who may have more financial resources. Our domestic automotive and light truck heat exchange product lines are considered to be among the best in a marketplace which is highly competitive. We compete with national producers of heat transfer products, internal operations of the OEMs, international and offshore suppliers and, to a lesser extent, local and regional manufacturers. The primary competition in the temperature control aftermarket is from national producers, offshore suppliers and numerous regional operators. While some competitors may achieve economic advantages such as lower labor and health care costs, we compete against them using product design, performance, and price, breath of product line, customer service, warranty, product availability and timely delivery. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to future liquidity. Our future liquidity and ordinary capital needs excluding the impact of the Southaven Casualty Event, described above, are expected to be met from a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings under a new credit agreement. However, future cash flow may be impacted by a number of factors, including changing market conditions, failure to meet financial covenants under our current or future loan agreement, industry trends lengthening customer payment terms or the discontinuance of currently utilized customer sponsored payment programs. Changes in payment terms to one or more major suppliers could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future liquidity. While we currently utilize customer-sponsored programs administered by financial institutions in order to accelerate the collection of funds and offset the impact of lengthening customer payment terms, there can be no assurance that customers will continue to make these programs available. We believe that the amount of borrowings available under our current loan agreement are not sufficient to meet the funding needed for all vendor payables or the capital which might be required for major growth initiatives, such as significant acquisitions. Any major growth initiatives would require us to seek other sources or forms of capital. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining a new credit agreement or that we would be successful in securing additional sources or forms of capital for major initiatives. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to market risks regarding raw materials. Copper, brass and aluminum are used in the manufacture of most of our products. Although these commodities are available from a number of vendors; we have chosen to concentrate our sources through supply agreements with a limited number of long-term suppliers. If a supply problem were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, commodity prices are subject to changes based on availability and other factors outside our control. While copper, brass and aluminum commodity prices have fluctuated significantly in the past several years; we have been generally unable to pass through price increases to customers in the automotive and light truck aftermarket to offset these increases. As a result, operating margins have been adversely impacted and we have had to look to other cost reduction actions in order to offset any commodity price increases. Continued commodity price fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent on overall economic factors beyond our control. The overall demand for automotive and light truck aftermarket parts is closely correlated to overall miles driven by vehicle users. Therefore, a substantial increase in fuel prices or a general economic slowdown could adversely impact the demand for our products. Concerns about inflation, loss of jobs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and recent international conflicts and terrorist and military actions have resulted in a downturn in worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the United States. These unfavorable economic conditions may have a negative impact on customer buying habits, market trends and availability of financing in the worldwide capital markets. If overall market conditions worsen, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks relating to outsourcing. We purchase certain products from third parties and rely on those third parties to provide quality products and services on a timely and effective basis. While performance of these third parties is closely monitored and back-up plans are maintained in case third parties are unable to perform as agreed, we do not ultimately control the performance of outsourcing partners. The failure of third-party outsourcing partners to perform as expected or as required by contract could have a material adverse effect on our ability to properly carry-out business on a correct and timely basis. In addition, third party suppliers could refuse to supply required products due to our current cash flow constraints, which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to interest rate and foreign currency risks. Our interest expense is sensitive to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008, borrowings under the Silver Point Agreement included $0.7 million of revolving credit borrowings at a 14% per annum interest rate, $6.0 million of revolving credit borrowings at an interest rate of 12% per annum and a term loan of $33.4 million at an interest rate of 12% per annum. The Second Amendment of the Silver Point Agreement, signed on March 12, 2008, increased the interest rate on outstanding indebtedness to the greater of (i) the Adjusted Libor Rate, as defined in the Silver Point Agreement, plus 8%, or (ii) 12%, for LIBOR borrowings, or the greater of (x) the Adjusted Base Rate, as defined in the Second Amendment, plus 7%, or (y) 14%, for Base Rate borrowings. Factors outside of the Company’s control cause changes in both the Eurodollar loan rate and the prime rate. As a result of having sales and manufacturing facilities in Europe and Mexico, changes in the foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the economic conditions in the countries in which we do business could favorably or unfavorably affect financial results. While factors influencing both foreign currency exchange rates and general economic conditions are outside our control, fluctuations in 12 Table of Contents exchange rates and foreign economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be subject to environmental liabilities. As is the case with manufacturers of similar products, certain hazardous substances are utilized in our manufacturing processes. While we currently do not anticipate any material adverse effect on consolidated results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of compliance with Federal, state, local or foreign environmental laws or regulations, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. We could be subject to material legal proceedings. In the ordinary course of business, various legal actions are pending with respect to such matters as product liability, casualty, environmental and employment-related claims. While none of the pending actions of this nature are material, there can be no assurance a material action will not be asserted in the future. Changes in laws and regulations that affect the governance of public companies have increased our operating expenses and will continue to do so. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies included in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have imposed new duties on us and on our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firm. In order to comply with these new rules, we have internally added staff positions and hired consulting advisory firms to assist us in the process, which have impacted operating expenses. In particular, we have incurred additional administrative expenses as we implemented Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on the Company’s internal controls, and these expenses will rise further when our independent registered public accounting firm has to attest to our internal controls. We have incurred significant expenses in connection with the implementation, documentation and testing of our existing control systems and possible establishment of new controls and systems. Management time associated with these compliance efforts necessarily reduces time available for other operating activities, which could adversely affect operating results. If we are unable to achieve full and timely compliance with these regulatory requirements, we could be required to incur additional costs, expend additional management time on remedial efforts and make related public disclosures that could adversely affect our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents 