Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, some of which are discussed below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in the information incorporated by reference into this report. 8 You should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. Our business is impacted by customer concentration. The Company's largest customers are AutoZone, which accounted for approximately 17%, 25% and 23% of net sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively and Advance Auto Parts, which accounted for approximately 13%, 17% and 14% of net sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. The sale of the Company’s OEM business during 2005 in order to become predominantly an aftermarket-focused company has increased its reliance on major retail customers. The loss of one of the major retail customers indicated above could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. In addition, if one or more of the Company’s major customers were to initiate bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, it could render a material portion of the Company’s accounts receivable uncollectible or substantially impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. We are facing ongoing competitive pricing pressure. The Company has experienced ongoing pressure from its customers to reduce the prices it charges for its products. This is the result of a number of industry trends, including the impact of offshore suppliers in the marketplace, the consolidated purchasing power of large customers and actions taken by some of our competitors in an effort to ‘‘win over’’ new business. To the extent this pricing pressure continues, it may impact the Company’s operating margins, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. In addition, this pricing pressure makes it more difficult to pass along to customers the effects of rising commodity costs facing the Company. We operate in a mature and highly competitive industry. The principal markets in which the Company competes are relatively mature, and future significant increases in the Company's revenues will continue to be dependent upon the Company's ability to increase market share in the markets in which it competes. As a result, the Company's ability to increase its unit volume is largely dependent upon its ability to displace sales currently made by its competitors. The Company cannot predict whether it will be able to increase its market share in the markets in which it competes. The Company faces significant competition within each of the markets in which it operates. Some of the Company's competitors are divisions of larger companies and some are independent companies. In its automotive and light truck heat exchange product lines, the Company believes that it is among the major North American aftermarket manufacturers and that competition is widely distributed. The Company competes with national producers of heat transfer products, internal operations of the OEMs, offshore suppliers and, to a lesser extent, local and regional manufacturers. The Company's primary competition in the air conditioning replacement parts business includes national producers, offshore suppliers and numerous regional operators. The Company's principal methods of competition include product design, performance, price, customer service, warranty, product availability and timely delivery. Some of the Company's competitors may enjoy economic advantages such as lower labor and health care costs. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to market risks regarding raw materials. Most of the Company’s products require the use of copper, brass or aluminum. Although copper, brass, aluminum and other primary materials are available from a number of vendors, the Company 9 has chosen to concentrate its sources with a limited number of long-term suppliers. If a supply problem were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. In addition, certain risks may arise in the various commodity markets in which the Company participates. Commodity prices in the copper, brass and aluminum markets are subject to changes based on availability and other factors outside the Company’s control. Copper, brass and aluminum prices have risen substantially in the past several years, and the Company has been generally unable to pass through price increases to its customers in the automotive and light truck aftermarket. Continued commodity price increases could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent on overall economic factors beyond our control. The overall demand for aftermarket automotive and light truck parts is closely correlated to overall miles driven by vehicle users. Therefore, a substantial increase in fuel prices or a general economic slowdown could adversely impact the demand for the Company’s products. Concerns about inflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and recent international conflicts and terrorist and military actions may result in a downturn in worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the United States. These unfavorable economic conditions may have a negative impact on customer buying habits and market trends. If overall market conditions worsen, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may have difficulties integrating the acquired business of Modine Aftermarket Holdings, Inc. into the Company. The Company faces risks related to the recently completed merger, pursuant to which Modine Aftermarket Holdings, Inc. (the ‘‘Modine Aftermarket Business’’), a former subsidiary of Modine Manufacturing Company (‘‘Modine’’), merged with and into the Company. The Company’s failure to integrate the Modine Aftermarket Business into its operations successfully and in a timely manner could reduce the Company's profitability. The merger, completed on July 22, 2005, involved the integration of businesses that previously have operated separately. The Company expects that the merger will result in efficiencies, business opportunities and new prospects for growth. However, although many of the integration tasks have been completed, it is possible that the Company may not realize portions of the expected efficiencies, business opportunities and growth prospects, or that the restructuring/implementation costs could be underestimated, due to: • The risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; • The risk that the cost savings and any revenue synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; • Disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients, employees or suppliers; • The transaction may involve unexpected costs; • Increased competition and its effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and revenues; • The risk of new and changing regulation in the U.S. and internationally; • The possibility that Proliance’s historical businesses may suffer as a result of the transaction. If these factors limit the Company's ability to integrate the operations of the Modine Aftermarket Business successfully or in a timely manner, the Company may not meet expectations for future synergy savings. We are subject to risks relating to outsourcing. The Company outsources certain of its operating functions to third parties and relies on those third parties to provide products and services on a timely and effective basis. Although the Company 10 closely monitors the performance of these third parties and maintains back-up plans in case third parties are unable to perform as agreed, the Company does not ultimately control the performance of its outsourcing partners. The failure of third-party outsourcing partners to perform as expected or as required by contract could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to properly carry-out its business functions on a correct and timely basis. We have takeover defense provisions that may inhibit an acquisition of the Company. The Company has certain anti-takeover measures that may affect the market price of the Company's common stock. The Company's certificate of incorporation, its by-laws and Delaware law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of the Company in a transaction not approved by the Company's board of directors. The Company's certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: • The division of the Company's board of directors into three classes, including related provisions (1) providing that vacancies on the board may only be filled by remaining board members and directors may only be elected at annual meetings or removed for cause and (2) requiring a vote of holders of 80% of the Company's voting stock to amend the classified board and related provisions or to remove a director; and • The ability of the Company's board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of shareholders. The classified board and related provisions described above will expire automatically at the 2009 annual shareholders meeting, and all directors will be elected for one-year terms beginning with that meeting, including directors whose terms otherwise would have expired after that meeting. We are subject to interest rate and foreign currency risks. The Company's interest expense is sensitive to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2005, the Company had a Loan Agreement, under which $40.4 million was outstanding. The weighted average interest rate on the Loan Agreement during 2005 was 5.85%. Interest on the Loan Agreement is based on, at the Company's option, the Eurodollar loan rate plus a Eurodollar margin or the prime rate. The Eurodollar margin for the period July 21, 2005 through April 21, 2006 is 2% while thereafter it is between 1.75% and 2.25%. Factors outside of the Company’s control result in changes in both the Eurodollar loan rate and the prime rate. The Company has sales and manufacturing facilities in Europe and Mexico. As a result, changes in the foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the economic conditions in Europe and Mexico could affect the Company’s financial results. Our business could be subject to environmental liabilities. As is the case with manufacturers of similar products, the Company uses certain hazardous substances in its operations. The Company currently does not anticipate any material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of compliance with Federal, state, local or foreign environmental laws or regulations; however, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of the Company’s business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. We could be subject to material legal proceedings. Various legal actions are pending against or involve the Company in the ordinary course of business with respect to such matters as product liability, casualty, environmental and employment-related claims. While none of the pending actions of this nature are material, there can be no assurance a material action arising in the ordinary course of business will not be asserted in the future. In addition, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 23, 1998 (the ‘‘Purchase 11 Agreement’’), the Company acquired from Paul S. Wilhide (‘‘Wilhide’’) all of the common stock of EVAP, Inc. The consideration for this transaction was a payment of $3 million in cash, the issuance of 30,000 shares of the Company's Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock (the ‘‘Convertible Shares’’), and the potential for an ‘‘earn-out’’ payment to Wilhide based on a calculation relating to EVAP's performance during the years 1999 and 2000. There is presently a dispute between the Company and Wilhide relating to the calculation of the earn-out. Wilhide claims that the value of his earn-out is $3.75 million, while the Company believes that Wilhide is not entitled to any earn-out. Under the payout formula in the Purchase Agreement, any earn-out, which would include interest, may be payable to Wilhide in cash. The Purchase Agreement includes an arbitration provision and the arbitration is currently proceeding before an arbitrator in Ft. Worth, Texas. While the arbitration schedule has not been finalized, it is anticipated that the arbitration hearing will occur and a decision will be rendered in 2006. The Company is vigorously defending this matter. Depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of this matter could materially affect the Company's consolidated financial position, future operations or cash flows in a particular period. The ultimate outcome at this time, however, is unknown. Some of our activities may be restricted by the tax impact of the recent merger with the Modine Aftermarket Business. Under applicable federal income tax rules, if the Company takes certain actions within two years following completion of the merger, the spin-off of the Modine Aftermarket Business could result in a taxable event to Modine. If the Company were to take action that would result in the spin-off or the merger becoming taxable, the Company would be required to indemnify Modine for the amount of any resulting income tax to Modine under the terms of a tax sharing agreement entered into by the Company, Modine Aftermarket Holdings and Modine. In order to avoid this potential liability, the Company agreed, in the tax sharing agreement, that it would not take actions that are inconsistent with the Company’s factual statements or representations made in its representations letter to Modine in connection with the IRS rulings or that cause the spin-off to become taxable to Modine without obtaining either an unqualified opinion of an independent nationally recognized tax counsel that such actions will not cause the spin-off to become taxable or Modine's consent. Changes in laws and regulations that affect the governance of public companies have increased our operating expenses and will continue to do so. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies included in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have imposed new duties on us and on our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firm. In order to comply with these new rules, we have internally added staff positions and hired a consulting advisory firm to assist us in the process, and we also expect to use additional services of our outside legal counsel, all of which will increase our operating expenses. In particular, we expect to incur additional administrative expenses as we implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls. For example, we expect to incur significant expenses in connection with the implementation, documentation and testing of our existing control systems and possible establishment of new controls and systems. Management time associated with these compliance efforts necessarily reduces time available for other operating activities, which could adversely affect operating results. If we are unable to achieve full and timely compliance with these regulatory requirements, we could be required to incur additional costs, expend additional management time on remedial efforts and make related public disclosures that could adversely affect our stock price. We are subject to risks related to future liquidity. The future liquidity and ordinary capital needs of the Company in the short term are expected to be met from a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings under the loan agreement with its bank lenders. However, the Company’s future cash flow may be impacted by a number of factors, including failure to meet financial covenants under its loan agreement, industry trends lengthening 12 customer payment terms or the discontinuance of currently utilized customer sponsored payment programs. Changes in payment terms to one or more major suppliers could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and future liquidity. The Company currently utilizes customer-sponsored programs administered by financial institutions in order to accelerate the collection of funds and offset the impact of these lengthening customer payment terms. However, there can be no assurance that the Company’s customers will continue to make these programs available. In addition, the Company believes that the amount of borrowings available under its loan agreement would not be sufficient to meet the capital needs for major growth initiatives, such as significant acquisitions. If the Company were to implement major new growth initiatives, it would have to seek other sources or forms of capital. No assurance can be given that the Company would be successful in securing such additional sources or forms of capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 