ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face competitive pressures in our business that could cause our revenues to decline and adversely affect our profitability. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could further increase competition in our industry including: ● the formation of new insurers and an influx of new capital in the marketplace as existing companies attempt to expand their business as a result of better pricing and/or terms; ● programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas, other alternative market types of coverage; or other non-property insurance; and ● changing practices created by the Internet, which has increased competition within the insurance business. New competition from these developments could make the property and casualty insurance marketplace more competitive by increasing the supply of insurance capacity. In that event, the current market softens further, and it may negatively influence our ability to maintain or increase rates. Consequently, our profitability could be adversely impacted by increased competition. 14 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition, excess capacity and lower levels of profitability (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates, shortages of underwriting capacity, and higher levels of profitability (known as a hard market). Although an individual insurance company’s financial performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Specific factors that can drive the industry’s profitability include: ● rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; ● volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; ● changes in loss reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurer’s liability develop; ● fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses; and ● increases in medical costs beyond historic or expected annual inflationary levels. Because the cyclicality of our industry is due in large part to the actions of competitors and general economic conditions, we cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. Actual loss and loss adjustment expenses may exceed our reserve estimates, which would negatively impact our profitability and financial position. In many cases, several years may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and our payment of the loss. To recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we establish reserves as balance sheet liabilities representing estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expenses. Loss reserves are an estimate of what we anticipate the ultimate costs to be and therefore do not represent an exact calculation of liabilities. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments. As part of the reserving process, we review historical data and consider the impact of various factors such as: ● Loss emergence patterns; ● Emerging economic and social trends; ● Inflation; and ● Changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future results. It also assumes that adequate historical or other data exists upon which to make these judgments. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. If the actual amount of insured losses is greater than our reserve estimates, our profitability and financial position could suffer. In addition, an increase in reserves may also require us to write off a portion of our deferred acquisition costs asset, which would also negatively impact our operating results and financial position. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and could cause us to suffer material financial losses. The majority of our property business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events, such as hurricanes, winter weather, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms and fires, and other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Generally these losses result in an increase in the number of claims incurred as well as the amount of compensation sought by claimants. We did not have any significant catastrophic-related losses in 2010 or 2009. Currently, we purchase catastrophe reinsurance to cover for a potential catastrophe. However, it is possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could cause our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves to increase and our liquidity and financial condition to decline. Refer to Note 6 ~ Reinsurance for a detailed description of our reinsurance treaties and structure. 15 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, have been negotiated to limit our risks. It is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion, or legislation could be enacted that modifies or voids the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Likewise, for catastrophe events and for per-risk events we buy a limited amount of reinsurance coverage that we believe is adequate to reimburse us for our large losses with a very high degree of probability. Should an unlikely event occur that exceeds our reinsurance coverage, then the amounts in excess of our reinsurance coverage could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Litigation may have an adverse effect on our business We are subject at times to various claims, lawsuits and proceedings relating principally to alleged errors or omissions in the placement of insurance, claims administration, consulting services and other business transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. Where appropriate, we vigorously defend such claims, lawsuits and proceedings. Some of these claims, lawsuits and proceedings seek damages, including consequential, exemplary, or punitive damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, be significant. Most of the claims, lawsuits and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business are covered by the policy at issue, errors and omissions insurance or other appropriate insurance. In terms of deductibles associated with such insurance, we have established provisions against these items, which are believed to be adequate in light of current information and legal advice. With the assistance of outside counsel, we adjust such provisions according to new developments or changes in the strategy in dealing with such matters. On the basis of current information, we do not expect the outcome of the claims, lawsuits and proceedings to which we are subject to, either individually, or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, it is possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of any such matters. Our geographic concentration ties our performance to the business, economic, natural perils, man made perils, and regulatory conditions within our concentrated regions. One of our predominate lines of business is workers’ compensation (41.8% of net earned premiums in 2010), which is concentrated in California. Accordingly, unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in this state could negatively impact our business. California is also exposed to climate and environmental changes, natural perils such as earthquakes, water supplies, and the possibility of pandemics or terrorist acts. Because our business is concentrated in this manner, we may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risk from natural perils that are greater than the risks associated with greater geographic diversification. Refer to Note 6 ~ Reinsurance for further information regarding our reinsurance structure related to workers’ compensation business. Our success depends on our ability to appropriately price the risks we underwrite. Our financial results depend on our ability to underwrite and collect adequate premium rates for a wide variety of risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, loss expenses, and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. To price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data, develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas, monitor and react to changes in trends and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. These activities are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are outside our control, including: ● availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data; ● uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions; ● selection and application of appropriate rating and pricing techniques; ● changes in legal standards, claim settlement practices, medical care expenses and restoration costs; ● changes in mandated rates or benefits set by the state regulators; and ● legislative actions. Consequently, we could underprice risks, which would negatively affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In either event, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. 16 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. If market conditions cause our reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our Insurance Company Subsidiaries, especially for the excess-of-loss and severity risks. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or to obtain other reinsurance in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. Increases in the cost of reinsurance would adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance on favorable terms, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. Our reinsurers may not pay on losses in a timely fashion, or at all, which may cause a substantial loss and increase our costs. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk we have assumed (known as ceding) to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk under pro-rata and excess-of-loss contracts. These reinsurance arrangements diversify our business and reduce our exposure to large losses or from hazards of an unusual nature. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, the ceding of insurance does not discharge us of our primary liability to our policyholder. Therefore, we are subject to credit risk with respect to the obligations of our reinsurers. If our reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay on a timely basis, our financial results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In order to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and monitor the economic characteristics of the reinsurers on an ongoing basis and, if appropriate, we may require trust agreements to collateralize reinsurers’ financial obligation to us. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our investment portfolio is predominantly comprised of fixed income securities. These securities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. An increase in interest rates typically reduces the fair market value of fixed income securities. In addition, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed income securities will be lower. We generally hold our fixed income securities to maturity, so our interest rate exposure does not usually result in realized losses. However, as noted above, rising interest rates could result in a significant reduction of our book value. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control including general economic conditions, governmental monetary policy, and political conditions. As discussed above, fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our business. See “Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for further discussion on interest rate risk. Our investment portfolio is subject to market and credit risks, which could affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. Our investment portfolio is subject to overall market risk and credit risk of the individual issuers of securities. The value of investments in marketable securities is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the creditworthiness of the issuer. Although we try to manage this risk by diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing credit quality, our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general downturn in the economy. A severe economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our results from operations and our financial condition. We could be forced to sell investments to meet our liquidity requirements. We invest the premiums we receive from customers until they are needed to pay policyholder claims or until they are recognized as profits. Consequently, we seek to match the duration of our investment portfolio with the duration of our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves to ensure strong liquidity and avoid having to liquidate securities to fund claims. As an example, we ladder the maturities of our investment portfolio to ensure we have adequate liquidity to fund anticipated liabilities that are coming due. We believe that we are currently well positioned from a liquidity perspective. That said, risk factors such as inadequate loss and loss adjustment reserves or unfavorable trends in litigation could potentially result in the need to sell investments to fund these liabilities. This could result in significant realized losses depending on the conditions of the general market, interest rates and credit issues with individual securities. 17 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. A decrease in our A.M. Best rating could negatively affect our business. Insurance companies are subject to financial strength ratings produced by external rating agencies. Higher ratings generally indicate greater financial stability and a stronger ability to pay claims. Ratings are assigned by rating agencies to insurers based upon factors they believe are important to policyholders. Ratings are not recommendations to buy, hold, or sell our securities. Our ability to write business is most influenced by our rating from A.M. Best. A.M. Best ratings are designed to assess an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet continuing obligations to policyholders. Currently, our financial strength rating from A.M. Best is “A−” (Excellent) for our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that A.M. Best will not change this rating in the future. A rating downgrade from A.M. Best could materially adversely affect the business we write and our results of operations. Because we are heavily regulated by the states in which we operate, we may be limited in the way we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which we operate. The supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial condition. The primary purpose of the supervision and regulation is to maintain compliance with insurance regulations and to protect policyholders. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes. These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to state insurance departments. This system of regulation covers, among other things: ● standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; ● restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; ● restrictions on the types of terms that we can include in the insurance policies we offer; ● required methods of accounting; ● required reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; ● permissible underwriting and claims settlement practices; and ● assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain insurance policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. The regulations of the state insurance departments may affect the cost or demand for our products and may impede us from obtaining rate increases or taking other actions we might wish to take to increase our profitability. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals, or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could stop or temporarily suspend us from conducting some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize us. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation, and/or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry. Most states assess our Insurance Company Subsidiaries to provide funds for failing insurance companies and those assessments could be material. Our Insurance Company Subsidiaries are subject to assessments in most states where we are licensed for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. Maximum contributions required by law in any one year vary by state, and have historically been less than one percent of annual premiums written. We cannot predict with certainty the amount of future assessments. Significant assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Provisions of the Michigan Business Corporation Act, our articles of incorporation and other corporate governing documents and the insurance laws may discourage takeover attempts. The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains “anti-takeover” provisions. Chapter 7A (the “Fair Price Act”) of the Business Corporation Act applies to us and may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in their best interest, including those attempts that might result in shareholders receiving a premium over market price for their shares. 18 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. The Fair Price Act provides that a supermajority vote of ninety percent of the shareholders and no less than two-thirds of the votes of non interested shareholders must approve a “business combination.” The Fair Price Act defines a “business combination” to encompass any merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale of assets, stock issue, liquidation, or reclassification of securities involving an “interested shareholder” or certain “affiliates.” An “interested shareholder” is generally any person who owns ten percent or more of the outstanding voting shares of the company. An “affiliate” is a person who directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a specified person. The supermajority vote required by the Fair Price Act does not apply to business combinations that satisfy certain conditions. These conditions include, among others: (i) the purchase price to be paid for the shares of the company in the business combination must be at least equal to the highest of either (a) the market value of the shares or (b) the highest per share price paid by the interested shareholder within the preceding two-year period or in the transaction in which the shareholder became an interested shareholder, whichever is higher; and (ii) once becoming an interested shareholder, the person may not become the beneficial owner of any additional shares of the company except as part of the transaction that resulted in the interested shareholder becoming an interested shareholder or by virtue of proportionate stock splits or stock dividends. Our articles of incorporation allow our Board of Directors to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock with voting rights, preferences and other privileges as the Board of Directors may determine. The possible issuance of preferred shares could adversely affect the holders of our common stock and could prevent, delay, or defer a change of control. We are also subject to the laws of Michigan, Ohio, Texas, California, Washington D.C., and Missouri, which govern insurance holding companies. Under these laws, a person generally must obtain the applicable Insurance Department’s approval to acquire, directly or indirectly, five to ten percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. An Insurance Department’s determination of whether to approve an acquisition would be based on a variety of factors, including an evaluation of the acquirer’s financial stability, the competence of its management, and whether competition in that state would be reduced. These laws may prevent, delay or defer a change of control of us or our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. Our ability to meet ongoing cash requirements and pay dividends may be limited by our holding company structure and regulatory constraints. We are a holding company that transacts the majority of our business through our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our obligations on our outstanding debt, and to pay our expenses and shareholder dividends, may depend upon the dividend paying capacity of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. Payments of dividends to us by our Insurance Company Subsidiaries are restricted by state insurance laws, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to revised restrictions in the future. As a result, at times, we may not be able to receive dividends from our Insurance Company Subsidiaries and we may not receive dividends in amounts necessary to meet our debt obligations or to pay shareholder dividends on our capital stock. Although we have paid cash dividends in the past, we may not pay cash dividends in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends by our Insurance Company Subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. There is no requirement that we must, and we cannot assure you that we will, declare and pay any dividends in the future. Our Board of Directors may determine to retain such capital for general corporate or other purposes. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that our present capital is insufficient to meet future operating requirements and/or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings. If we had to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available or may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the shares currently outstanding. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 19 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. We are exposed to goodwill impairment risk as part of our growth strategy. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We are required to perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we would be required to write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such impairments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties, which may prevent us from achieving the expected benefits. At times, we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the expected benefits exceed the risks. Achieving such benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the combined businesses are integrated in an efficient and effective manner, as well as general competitive factors in the marketplace. We believe we have a robust due diligence process; however, integrating an acquired company or business can be a complex and costly endeavor. Sometimes we can be confronted with unexpected issues that may present significant risks, which could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our reliance upon producers subjects us to their credit risk. With respect to agency-billed premiums and premiums generated by brokers, producers collect premiums from the policyholders and forward them to us. In certain jurisdictions, when the insured pays premium for these policies to producers for payment, the premium might be considered to have been paid under applicable insurance laws and the insured will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premium from the producer. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with producers. Although producers’ failures to remit premiums to us have not caused a material adverse impact on us to date, there may be instances where producers collect premium but do not remit it to us and we may be required under applicable law to provide the coverage set forth in the policy despite the actual lack of collection of the premium by us. Because the possibility of these events is dependent in large part upon the financial condition, cash flows, and internal operations of our producers, we may not be able to quantify any potential exposure presented by the risk. If we are unable to collect premium from our producers in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. One of our core selected producers accounts for a large portion of our premium volume, loss of business provided by this entity could adversely affect us. Our largest producer in 2010 was Midwest General Agency, which accounted for 14.4% of our gross written premium. No other producer was responsible for more than 10% of our gross written premium. A significant decrease in business from this producer could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our performance is dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to retain and motivate our senior management and key management personnel and their efforts. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have existing employment or severance agreements with Robert S. Cubbin, Christopher J. Timm, Karen M. Spaun, Michael G. Costello, and other senior executives. We maintain a “key person” life insurance policy on Robert S. Cubbin, our President and CEO. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could cause our ability to implement our business strategies to be delayed or hindered. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for these employees is strong and we may not be able to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate our agents and other producers. Our failure to attract and retain the necessary personnel and producers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 20 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems to conduct our business. Our business is dependent upon the uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunication systems. We rely upon our systems, as well as the systems of our vendors, to underwrite and process our business; make claim payments; provide customer service; provide policy administration services, such as endorsements, cancellations and premium collections; comply with insurance regulatory requirements; and perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to timely and efficiently process our business and protect our information and telecommunications systems from physical loss, telecommunications failure or other similar catastrophic events, as well as from security breaches. While we have implemented business contingency plans and other reasonable and appropriate internal controls to protect our systems from interruption, loss or security breaches, a sustained business interruption or system failure could adversely impact our ability to process our business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Likewise, a security breach of our computer systems could also interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation in the event confidential customer information is disclosed to third–parties. We could also be subject to fines and penalties from a security breach. The cost to remedy a severe security breach could also be substantial. These circumstances could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation. Managing technology initiatives and obtaining the efficiencies anticipated with technology implementation may present significant challenges. While technological enhancements and initiatives can streamline several business processes and ultimately reduce the costs of operations, these initiatives can present short-term costs and implementation risks. Projections of associated costs, implementation timelines, and the benefits of those results may be inaccurate and such inaccuracies could increase over time. In addition, there are risks associated with not achieving the anticipated efficiencies from technology implementation that could impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 