Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following describes certain of the risks and uncertainties we face that could cause our future results to differ materially from our current results and from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements. These risk factors should be considered together with the other risks and uncertainties described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere herein. This list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. The cyclical nature of the aluminum industry causes variability in our earnings and cash flows. Our operating results depend on the market for primary aluminum, which is a highly cyclical commodity with prices that are affected by global demand and supply, political and economic conditions and other related factors. For example, aluminum warehouse inventory levels remain at very high levels, which may cause primary aluminum prices and regional delivery premiums to fall as such inventory enters the market. Historically, aluminum prices have been volatile, and we expect such volatility to continue. The cash aluminum price, as quoted on the LME, averaged approximately $1,846 per tonne in 2013; this level is below the average price of approximately $2,019 per tonne for the previous five years. The LME cash aluminum price on February 28, 2014 was $1,724 per tonne. Declines in primary aluminum prices have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flows. Although Midwest and European Duty Paid premiums reached levels substantially higher than historical averages in 2014, we expect these premiums to decrease, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. If the price we realize for our products falls below our cost of production, we may choose or be forced to curtail all or a portion of our operations or otherwise restructure our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to take actions necessary to curtail or otherwise restructure our operations, if these steps are required. Future downturns in aluminum prices (and regional delivery and other premiums) may significantly reduce the amount of cash available to meet our obligations and fund our long-term business strategies and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Disruptions to, or changes in the terms of, our raw material and electricity supply arrangements could increase our production costs. Our business depends upon the adequate supply of alumina, electricity, aluminum fluoride, calcined petroleum coke, pitch, finished carbon anodes and cathodes and other materials at competitive prices. Disruptions to the supply of these production inputs could occur for a variety of reasons, including disruptions of production at a particular supplier’s facility or power plant. For some of these production inputs, such as power and anode supply, we rely on a limited number of suppliers. Many of our supply agreements are short term or expire in the next few years. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to renew such agreements at commercially favorable terms, if at all. Any supply disruption may require us to purchase these products on less favorable terms than under our current agreements due to the limited number of suppliers of these products or other market conditions. In some instances, we may be unable to secure alternative supply of these resources. In addition, we may not be able to obtain alumina or power in the future at prices that are based on the LME. Because we sell our products based on the LME price for primary aluminum, we would not be able to pass on any increased costs of raw material that are not linked to the LME price to our customers. A disruption in our materials or electricity supply may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to secure alternate supplies of materials or electrical power at comparable prices. 14Certain of our alumina and electricity supply contracts contain “take-or-pay” obligations. We have obligations under certain contracts to take-or-pay for specified quantities of alumina and electricity over the term of those contracts regardless of our operating requirements. Our financial position and results of operations may therefore be adversely affected by the market price for alumina and electric power even if we were to curtail unprofitable production capacity (or delay construction of new capacity) as we will continue to incur costs under these contracts to meet or settle our contractual take-or-pay obligations. If we were unable to use such electrical power or raw materials in our operations or sell them at prices consistent with or greater than our contract costs, we could incur significant losses under these contracts. In addition, these commitments may also limit our ability to take advantage of favorable changes in the market prices for electricity or raw materials and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.Losses caused by disruptions in our supply of power would adversely affect our operations. We use large amounts of electricity to produce primary aluminum. Any loss of power which reduces the amperage to our equipment or causes an equipment shutdown would result in a reduction in the volume of molten aluminum produced, and prolonged losses of power may result in the hardening or “freezing” of molten aluminum in the pots where it is produced, which could require an expensive and time consuming restart process. Disruptions in the supply of electrical power to our facilities can be caused by a number of circumstances, including unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment or transformer failure, human error, malicious acts, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our movement toward market-based power supply arrangements has further increased the risk that disruptions in the supply of electrical power to our domestic operations could occur. Under these arrangements we have greater exposure to transmission line outages, problems with grid stability and limitations on energy import capability. An alternative supply of power in the event of a disruption may not be feasible. If a disruption in the supply of electrical power at one of our facilities were to occur, we may lose production for a prolonged period of time, experience pot instability that could decrease levels of productivity and incur significant losses. Such a condition may also force a curtailment of all or part of the production at any of these facilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We operate our plants at close to peak amperage. Accordingly, even partial failures of high voltage equipment could affect our production. We maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, but are required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, the coverage under those policies may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not cover certain events. Certain of our insurance policies do not cover any losses that may be incurred if our suppliers are unable to provide power during periods of unusually high demand. Certain losses or prolonged interruptions in our operations may trigger a default under certain of our outstanding indebtedness and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Increases in energy costs adversely affect our business.Electricity represents our single largest operating cost. As a result, the availability of electricity at economic prices is critical to the profitability of our operations. We have finalized a new market-based electricity arrangement for each of Hawesville and Sebree. Market-based electricity contracts expose us to market price volatility and fluctuations. In addition, we do not have experience purchasing electricity on the open market or otherwise managing market-based electricity arrangements. Our movement toward market-based power supply arrangements, therefore, has increased our electrical power price risk for our domestic operations. There can be no assurance that such market-based power supply arrangements will result in lower electricity costs. Electrical power prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years (for instance, as a result of extreme weather conditions), without any direct relationship to the price of aluminum. Market fluctuations that lead to increased electricity and energy prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.A significant portion of the electrical power supplied to Mt. Holly is produced by natural gas. An increase in the price of natural gas would also increase the price that Mt. Holly pays for electricity. The Mt. Holly power contract also has take-or-pay type provisions, so our financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Mt. Holly and Century may be adversely affected by the price for electrical power even if we curtail unprofitable production capacity at this facility. Significant increases in electricity costs at any of our operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 15If we are unable to successfully finalize regulatory and transmission issues relating to our new power arrangement at our Hawesville smelter, we would likely have to curtail this facility.Effective August 20, 2013, the KPSC approved a new power supply arrangement for Hawesville with Kenergy and Big Rivers that allows the power companies to purchase power on the open market and pass it through to Hawesville at MISO pricing plus transmission and other costs incurred by them. However, there are still significant regulatory and transmission issues that remain unresolved with respect to the new power supply arrangement at Hawesville. We must also incur substantial capital expenditures at Hawesville in order to successfully implement this new power supply arrangement. If we are unable to successfully resolve the regulatory and transmission issues, or fund the necessary capital expenditures, then the Hawesville smelter would likely have to be curtailed. A curtailment of the Hawesville plant would impose various costs on us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, uncertainty regarding the future operation of this smelter may damage our relationships with our customers, suppliers, employees and other stakeholders, whether or not this plant is ultimately curtailed. For example, on April 16, 2013, we issued a conditional WARN notice to our employees in Hawesville that has been extended through March 31, 2014 given the potential plant closure. We may also need to take actions to terminate other customer and supply contracts or curtail individual potlines well in advance of any plant closure. Customers and suppliers may also become unwilling to renew existing contracts or enter into new contracts with us. It may also become more difficult to attract and retain employees. Such actions and events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Curtailment of unprofitable aluminum production at our U.S. facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Curtailing unprofitable production to reduce our operating costs requires us to incur substantial expense, both at the time of the curtailment and on an ongoing basis. Our facilities are subject to contractual and other fixed costs that continue even if we curtail operations at these facilities. These costs reduce the cost saving advantages of curtailing unprofitable aluminum production. If we are unable to realize the intended effects of any production curtailment, including at our currently curtailed Ravenswood facility, or if any production curtailment or other restructuring does not achieve sufficient reduction in operating expenses, we may have to seek bankruptcy protection for some or all of our U.S. subsidiaries; we could also be forced to divest some or all of these subsidiaries. If we were to seek bankruptcy protection for any of these subsidiaries, we would face additional risks. Such action could cause concern among our customers and suppliers, distract our management and our other employees and subject us to increased risks of lawsuits. Other negative consequences could include negative publicity, which could have an impact on the trading price of our securities and affect our ability to raise capital in the future. Any curtailments of our U.S. operations, or actions taken to seek bankruptcy protection or divest some or all of our U.S. subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.International operations expose us to political, regulatory, currency and other related risks.We receive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations, primarily in Iceland. These operations expose us to risks, including unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations, political and economic instability, challenges in managing foreign operations, increased costs to adapt our systems and practices to those used in foreign countries, taxes, export duties, currency restrictions and exchange, tariffs and other trade barriers, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. Changes in foreign laws and regulations are generally beyond our ability to control, influence or predict and future adverse changes in these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.Our international operations are also exposed to risks related to the challenges in obtaining permits necessary to run them. For example, the Grundartangi expansion program is subject to the receipt of an operating permit from Icelandic regulators. If we are unable to obtain this permit, we will not be permitted to produce more than 300,000 tpy of primary aluminum at Grundartangi and we will only realize a partial return on our significant investment in the Grundartangi expansion. 16In addition, we may be exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As a result, an increase in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could increase our operating expenses which are denominated and payable in those currencies. As we continue to explore other opportunities outside the U.S., including the expansion program at Grundartangi, the Helguvik project and the restart of Vlissingen, our currency risk with respect to the Icelandic krona (“ISK”), the euro and other foreign currencies will significantly increase.If economic, financial and political conditions in Iceland were to deteriorate our financial position and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Iceland is important to our business. Disruptions in Iceland’s economic, financial and political systems have decreased the stability of Iceland’s economy and financial markets and made cash management activities in Iceland more challenging. For example, the Icelandic government and the Central Bank of Iceland are restricting the transfer of funds into and outside of Iceland. While we are currently exempt from these foreign currency rules, we cannot control further actions by the Central Bank of Iceland which might restrict our ability to transfer funds through the Icelandic banking system and outside of Iceland. While we currently maintain essentially all of our Icelandic operating funds in accounts outside of Iceland, and are receiving substantially all of our customer payments in such accounts, a portion of our funds remain in the Icelandic banks to meet local working capital requirements. In addition, as payables become due in Iceland, we must transfer funds through the Icelandic banking system. If economic, financial or political conditions in Iceland deteriorate, or if counterparties and lenders become unwilling to engage in normal banking relations with and within Iceland, our ability to operate our Grundartangi smelter, including paying vendors, processing payroll and receiving payments, as well as our ability to complete the Helguvik project, could be adversely impacted, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. New LME warehousing rules could cause aluminum prices to decrease.The LME has announced new rules scheduled to take effect on April 1, 2014 that will require LME warehouses, under certain conditions, to deliver out more aluminum than they take in. These or other new rules could cause an increase in the supply of aluminum to enter the physical market and may cause regional delivery premiums and LME aluminum prices to fall. Declines in aluminum prices and regional delivery premiums reduce our earnings and cash flows. Downturns in regional delivery premiums and aluminum prices may significantly reduce the amount of cash available to meet our obligations and fund our long-term business strategies and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.We require substantial resources to pay our operating expenses and fund our capital expenditures. We require substantial resources to pay our operating expenses and fund our capital expenditures, including construction at our Helguvik project, the expansion programs at our Grundartangi smelter, the restart of Vlissingen and to implement the new power supply arrangement at Hawesville. In addition, if we were to resume operations at our Ravenswood smelter, we would incur substantial capital expenditures, working capital funding and operating expenses. If we are unable to generate funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses and fund our capital expenditures and other obligations, our ability to continue to meet these cash requirements in the future could require substantial liquidity and access to sources of funds, including from capital and credit markets. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unacceptable terms, we may be unable to respond to competitive pressures, take advantage of market opportunities or fund operations, capital expenditure or other obligations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.Construction at our Helguvik smelter site has been significantly curtailed. Substantial delay in the completion of, or failure to complete, this project may increase its cost, subject us to losses and impose other risks to completion that are not foreseeable at this time.Nordural Helguvik ehf, our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, has significantly curtailed construction activity and spending at our Helguvik project in response to ongoing negotiations with the power companies contracted to provide power to the Helguvik project. See “If we are unable to procure a reliable source of power, the Helguvik project may not be feasible,” and “If economic, financial and political conditions in Iceland were to deteriorate, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely impacted.” Nordural Helguvik cannot be certain when or if it will restart major construction and engineering activities or ultimately complete the Helguvik project or, if completed, that the Helguvik smelter would operate in a profitable manner. We will not realize any return on our significant investment in the Helguvik project until we are able to 17commence Helguvik operations in a profitable manner. If we fail to achieve operations at Helguvik, we may have to recognize a loss on our investment, which would have a material adverse impact on our earnings. Many of the contractual arrangements related to the Helguvik project have time periods for performance. The delay in restarting major construction and completing the Helguvik project has caused Nordural Helguvik to renegotiate and extend, or undertake to renegotiate and extend, existing contractual commitments, including with respect to power, transmission, technology, equipment and construction. There can be no assurance that the contractual arrangements and conditions, including extensions, necessary to proceed with construction of the Helguvik project will be obtained or satisfied on a timely basis or at all. In addition, such approvals or extensions may be subject to conditions that are unfavorable or make the project impracticable or less attractive from a financial standpoint. We may also become liable to some of our suppliers for damages relating to delays in the project. Even if we were to receive the necessary approvals and extensions on terms that we determine are acceptable, the construction of this project is a complex undertaking. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the project within our projected budget and schedule. To successfully execute this project, in addition to procuring a reliable source of power, we would need to arrange additional financing and secure a supply of necessary raw materials. Furthermore, unforeseen technical difficulties could increase the cost of the project, delay the project or render the project infeasible.We intend to finance our future capital expenditures from available cash, cash flow from operations and accessing capital markets. We may be unable to raise additional capital, or do so on attractive terms, due to a number of factors, including a lack of demand, poor economic conditions, interruptions in the capital markets, unfavorable interest rates or our financial condition or credit rating at the time. If additional capital resources are unavailable, we may further curtail construction and development activities. Further delay in the completion of the project or increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we are unable to procure a reliable source of power, the Helguvik project may not be feasible. The Helguvik project will require generation and transmission of a substantial amount of electricity to power the smelter. Nordural Helguvik has entered into agreements with two providers of power, HS and OR. Each of HS and OR has alleged that certain conditions to the delivery of power under the power agreements have not yet been satisfied. If we are unable to reach agreement with each of HS and OR, we may have to seek alternative sources of power, incur substantially increased power costs or further curtail construction activities of the Helguvik project. Due to the limited number of Icelandic power providers with resources sufficient to provide power to the Helguvik project (only three are currently in operation in Iceland), we may find it difficult or impossible to procure additional sources of power if HS and OR do not perform under their existing agreements and may be unable to complete construction of the smelter. If we agree to pay increased prices for power or substantially delay or are unable to complete the Helguvik project, we may have to recognize a substantial loss on our investment. Any failure to complete the Helguvik project, or any further delays in completing the project could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The generation of the contracted power for the Helguvik project will also require successful development of new energy sources by our contracted power providers and completion of the necessary transmission infrastructure to service the Helguvik project. If there are construction delays or technical difficulties in developing these new energy sources or transmission infrastructure, power may be delayed or may not be available. Development of the generation and transmission infrastructure is expensive and requires significant resources from the power and transmission providers. Factors which could delay or impede the generation and transmission of electric power are substantially beyond our ability to control, influence or predict, including the power and transmission providers’ ability to finance and obtain necessary permits, real property and other rights for the development of new energy sources and associated transmission infrastructure. In addition, if Nordural Helguvik is unable to proceed with the Helguvik project, it may incur significant reimbursement obligations for certain costs incurred by third party providers under transmission and other agreements entered into in connection with the Helguvik project and remain subject to significant power commitments already confirmed under its agreement with OR. If the power or transmission providers are unable to provide or transmit the contracted amounts of power, such failure could substantially delay or make the Helguvik project infeasible and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 18Our failure to maintain satisfactory labor relations could adversely affect our business. The bargaining unit employees at our Grundartangi, Hawesville, Sebree, Vlissingen and Ravenswood smelters are represented by labor unions, representing approximately 75% of our total workforce. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with any labor union representing our employees, our labor contracts may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of these facilities in the future. In addition, the collective bargaining agreements for our bargaining unit employees at our Grundartangi, Hawesville, Vlissingen and Sebree locations expire in either 2014 or 2015. The Sebree labor contract expires on October 28, 2014 and the Hawesville labor contract expires on March 31, 2015. We may not be able to renegotiate these or our other labor contracts on satisfactory terms. As part of any negotiation, we may reach agreements with respect to future wages and benefits that may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, negotiations could divert management attention or result in union-initiated work actions, including strikes or work stoppages. Any threatened or actual work stoppage in the future or inability to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements could prevent or significantly impair our ability to conduct production operations at our facilities subject to these collective bargaining agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.We could be adversely affected by the loss of a major customer or changes in the business or financial condition of our major customers. In 2013, we derived approximately 85% of our consolidated sales from our major customers: Southwire, Glencore, RTA and BHP Billiton. In 2014 and beyond, we expect to further concentrate our customer base to two major customers (Glencore and Southwire) as our metal sales and tolling agreements with RTA and BHP Billiton expired in 2013 and were not renewed. A significant downturn or deterioration in the business or financial condition of one of these major customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, a loss of either of these customers or failure to renew one of these major contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.We are exposed to the credit risks of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by one or more of our customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Following our acquisition of Sebree, we are attempting to expand the number of customers that we sell our primary aluminum products to. Some of these customers are not as well capitalized as our historical customers, exposing us to increased credit risks. In addition, some of these customers have relatively short operating periods or limited financial information available, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Our ability to access the credit and capital markets on acceptable terms may be limited due to our credit ratings, our financial condition or the deterioration of these markets. Our credit rating was, and continues to be, adversely affected by unfavorable market and financial conditions. Our existing credit ratings, or any future negative actions the credit agencies may take, could affect our ability to access the credit and capital markets in the future and could lead to worsened trade terms, increasing our liquidity needs. An inability to access capital and credit markets when needed in order to refinance our existing debt or raise new debt or equity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We may be unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry. Aluminum also competes with other materials, such as steel, copper, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications. Many of our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial and technical resources than we do. These larger competitors may be better able to withstand reductions in price or other adverse industry or economic conditions. Similarly, competitors with superior cost positions to ours may be better able to withstand reductions in price or other adverse industry or economic conditions. If we are not able to compete successfully, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 19Because we own less than a majority of some of our operating assets, we cannot exercise complete control over their operations. We have limited control over the operation of some of our operating assets, including the Mt. Holly smelter and the BHH carbon anode and cathode facility, because we beneficially own less than a majority of the ownership interests in such assets. While we seek to exert as much influence with respect to the management and operation of such assets as possible, we are dependent on our co-owners to operate such assets. Our co-owners may have interests, objectives and incentives with respect to such assets that differ from our own.We require significant cash flow to meet our debt service requirements, which increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, reduces cash available for other purposes and limits our operational flexibility. As of December 31, 2013, we had an aggregate of approximately $263 million of outstanding debt, $8.6 million of which will become due in 2014. We may incur additional debt in the future. The level of our debt could have important consequences, including: •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;•reducing cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, working capital and other general corporate purposes, because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; and•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competitive and other changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. We have various obligations to make payments in cash, including contractual commitments, pension funding, and certain contingent obligations, that will reduce the amount of cash available to make interest payments required on our outstanding debt and for other uses. Our industrial revenue bonds (“IRBs”) and any borrowings on our U.S. and Iceland revolving credit facilities are at variable interest rates, and future borrowings required to fund working capital at our businesses, construction of the Helguvik project, acquisitions, or other strategic opportunities may be at variable rates. An increase in interest rates would increase our debt service obligations under these instruments, further limiting cash flow available for other uses. In addition to our debt, we have liabilities and other obligations which could reduce cash available for other purposes and could limit our operational flexibility. Our ability to pay interest on and to repay or refinance our debt and to satisfy other commitments will depend upon our access to additional sources of liquidity and future operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, including market prices for primary aluminum, that are beyond our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay debt service obligations, refinance our existing debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could attempt to restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity or debt capital. There can be no assurance that we would be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms, or at all, and if we are unable to ultimately meet our debt service obligations and fund our other liquidity needs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Despite our substantial level of debt, we may incur more debt, which could exacerbate any or all of the risks described above. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. Although the loan and security agreement governing our U.S. revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 7.5% Senior Secured Notes due 2021 (the “7.5% Notes”) limits our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, as of December 31, 2013, approximately $68 million was available to us for borrowing under our U.S. revolving credit facility and $44 million was available to us under our Iceland revolving credit facility, which our wholly-owned subsidiary Nordural Grundartangi ehf entered into in the fourth quarter of 2013. In addition, the loan and security agreement governing our U.S. revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 7.5% Notes do not prevent us from incurring certain obligations that do not constitute debt as defined in these agreements. To the extent that we incur additional debt or such other obligations, the risks associated with our substantial debt described above, including our possible inability to service our debt or other obligations, would increase.20We depend upon intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends upon the receipt of intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries. Subject to the restrictions contained in our U.S. revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 7.5% Notes, future borrowings by our subsidiaries could contain restrictions or prohibitions on intercompany transfers by those subsidiaries. In addition, under applicable law, our subsidiaries could be limited in the amounts that they are permitted to pay as dividends on their capital stock. For example, the Icelandic government and the Central Bank of Iceland currently restrict the free transfer of funds outside of Iceland. While we are currently exempt from these foreign currency rules, we cannot control further actions by the Central Bank of Iceland which might restrict our ability to transfer funds through the Icelandic banking system and outside of Iceland. We may be required to write down the book value of certain assets. We are required to perform various analyses related to the carrying value of various assets whenever events or circumstances indicate that their net carrying amount may not be recoverable. Given changes in the extent and manner our assets are being used, changes in certain factors critical to our industry, as well as recent global economic conditions, which in part drive assumptions for the future in such analyses, we could have significant adjustments in the carrying value for certain assets. For instance, if we do not eventually resume operations at Ravenswood or we do not complete the Helguvik project, we may be required to recognize a loss related to all or a portion of the assets of these facilities. The net carrying value of Ravenswood was approximately $50 million at December 31, 2013. The aggregate capital expenditures through December 31, 2013 related to the Helguvik project were approximately $149 million. In the future, we will continue to evaluate our assets for impairments, which could be significant. Any such adjustments would be in the form of a non-cash charge which would reduce our earnings and increase our accumulated deficit. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.Climate change legislation or environmental regulations may adversely impact our operations. Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions are the subject of significant attention in the countries in which we operate and a number of governments or governmental bodies in these countries have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change. For example, as a member of the European Economic Area and a signatory to the Kyoto Protocol, Iceland has implemented legislation to abide by the Kyoto Protocol and prepare to abide by Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament which establishes a “cap and trade” scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. Because Iceland was granted emissions allowances under the Kyoto Protocol through 2012, Iceland has implemented Directive 2003/87/EC, and is complying with the Directive by participating in the European Union (“EU”) Emission Trade Scheme from January 1, 2013. Although we will receive approximately 90% of needed carbon dioxide allowances for the Grundartangi smelter free of charge, the economic impact of implementing this system is not fully known as cost of allowances could rise and we cannot be certain that Helguvik will be granted free allowances if the project is completed.Implementation of these potential regulatory changes or others is uncertain and may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly through customers or our supply chain. As a result of the foregoing, we may incur increased capital expenditures resulting from required compliance with such regulatory changes, increased energy costs, costs associated with a “cap and trade” system, increased insurance premiums and deductibles, a change in competitive position relative to industry peers and changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for goods produced by us and indirectly, from changes in costs of goods sold. For example, “cap and trade” legislation may impose significant additional costs to our power suppliers that could lead to significant increases in our energy costs. In addition, the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and will be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, shortages of water or other natural resources, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. Any adverse regulatory and physical changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We and our suppliers are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are obligated to comply with various foreign, federal, state and other environmental laws and regulations, including the environmental laws and regulations of the United States, Iceland, China and the EU. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to costs or liabilities relating to our manufacturing operations or property ownership. We incur operating costs 21and capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We also are currently, and may in the future be, responsible for the cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former facilities or for the amelioration of damage to natural resources. In addition, many of our key suppliers are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may affect their costs of production resulting in an increase in the price of the products that we purchase from them. For instance, much of the power we purchase in the U.S., is generated at coal-based power plants, which are subject to significant environmental regulation. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, previously unknown environmental conditions or damages to natural resources are discovered or alleged, or if contributions from other responsible parties with respect to sites for which we have cleanup responsibilities are not available, we may be subject to additional liability, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Further, additional environmental matters for which we may be liable may arise in the future at our present sites where no problem is currently known, with respect to sites previously owned or operated by us, by related corporate entities or by our predecessors, or at sites that we may acquire or operate in the future. In addition, overall production costs may become prohibitively expensive and prevent us from effectively competing in price sensitive markets if future capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance or cleanup are significantly greater than expected.Unpredictable events, including natural disasters, dangerous weather conditions, terrorist attacks and political unrest, may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from operations in areas that have heightened risk of natural disasters, including Iceland. Iceland suffered several natural disasters and extreme weather events in 2010, 2011 and 2012, including significant volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. In addition, our Grundartangi smelter lost power for approximately three hours in January 2012 as the result of damage sustained due to abnormal and extreme weather conditions at an off-site electrical substation owned and operated by the national power grid operator.Future unpredictable events, including natural disasters, dangerous weather conditions, terrorist attacks and political unrest, may adversely affect our ability to conduct business by causing disruptions in Icelandic, Chinese, Dutch, U.S. or global economic conditions, inflicting loss of life, damaging property and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage and restore operations at our production facilities. Acquisitions may present difficulties. We have a history of making acquisitions and we expect to opportunistically seek to make acquisitions in the future. We are subject to numerous risks as a result of our acquisition strategy, including the following: •we may spend time and money pursuing acquisitions that do not close;•acquired companies may have contingent or unidentified liabilities;•it may be challenging for us to manage our existing business as we integrate acquired operations; and•we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions.For example, we consummated the Sebree acquisition in June 2013. We are subject to numerous risks following the consummation of the Sebree acquisition, including, for example, that we may incur costs and expenses associated with any unidentified or potential liabilities, we may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits from the Sebree acquisition and unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating the acquired Sebree operations into our existing operations. Accordingly, our past or future acquisitions might not ultimately improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated and may subject us to additional liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.Any restart of the Ravenswood smelter would involve significant risks and uncertainties. In 2009, we curtailed all operations at our Ravenswood smelter. We may restart the curtailed operations upon the realization of several objectives, including an expectation of higher long-term LME prices, a new power agreement that would provide for flexibility in Ravenswood’s cost structure under adverse industry conditions or market-based pricing, passage of supporting legislation and a new labor agreement. If we are unable to realize these and other objectives, a restart of the Ravenswood smelter may not be feasible. Any potential restart of operations at the Ravenswood smelter would involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:22 •we may spend time and incur significant costs and liabilities pursuing a restart that does not occur or that does not achieve the anticipated benefits; and•it may be challenging for us to manage our existing business as we restart operations at Ravenswood.Accordingly, any potential restart of operations at Ravenswood might not ultimately improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated and may subject us to additional liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.Our ability to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” under the Internal Revenue Code. As of December 31, 2013, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.3 billion, after adjusting for losses carried back to previous tax years, which could offset future taxable income. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future federal taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change would occur if our “five-percent shareholders,” as defined under the Code, collectively increase their ownership in us by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Future transactions in our stock that may not be in our control may cause us to experience such an ownership change and thus limit our ability to utilize net operating losses, tax credits and other tax assets to offset future taxable income.Glencore may exercise substantial influence over us, and they may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. Glencore beneficially owns approximately 41.8% of our outstanding common stock and all of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred stock. Through its ownership of our common and preferred stock, Glencore has an overall 46.6% economic ownership of Century. In addition, three of our nine directors were appointed by Glencore pursuant to support agreements with Glencore. Glencore is also one of our largest customers, and in 2013 represented approximated 35.1% of our consolidated sales. Century and Glencore enter into various transactions such as the purchase and sale of primary aluminum, purchase and sale of alumina, tolling agreements and certain forward financial contracts. Because of the interests described above, Glencore may have substantial influence over our business, and on the outcome of any matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest between Glencore and our other stockholders. For example, Glencore may, in the future, engage in a wide variety of activities in our industry that may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us. In addition, because of the interests described above, any future agreements or arrangements that we enter into with Glencore may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsWe have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 23