Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully read and consider the following risk factors. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.Our operating results fluctuate significantly and we may not achieve profitability in any given period. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations which make estimating revenue and operating results for any specific period very difficult, particularly because a material portion of product revenue recognized in any given quarter or year typically depends on a very limited number of system sales expected for that quarter or year and the product revenue generally depends on the timing of product acceptances by customers and contractual provisions affecting revenue recognition. For example, a system sale to the University of Illinois' National Center for Supercomputing Applications accounted for approximately $143 million of our revenue in fiscal 2012. Delays in achieving customer acceptances of installed systems and recognizing revenue from a product transaction or transactions due to development or product delivery delays, not receiving needed components timely or with anticipated quality and performance, inability of a system to meet performance requirements or targets, contractual provisions or for other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in any specific quarter or year, and could shift associated revenue, gross profit and cash receipts from one quarter to another, or even from one year to another in the case of revenue expected to be realized in the fourth quarter of any year. The amount and timing of research and development co-funding can also materially affect our expenses for any given quarter or year. In addition, because our revenue is often concentrated in particular quarters rather than evenly spread throughout a year, we generally do not expect to sustain profitability over successive quarters even if we are profitable for the year. Although we recorded positive net income in 2010, 2011 and 2012, we have historically experienced net losses and, prior to 2010, had last recorded positive annual net income in 2003. For example, we recorded a net loss of $10.6 million in 2007, a net loss of $40.7 million in 2008, which included a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $54.5 million and a net loss of $0.6 million in 2009. Net income in 2011 benefited from the partial reduction of the valuation allowance held against our U.S. deferred tax assets of $13.9 million and a complete reduction of the valuation allowance held against the deferred tax assets of our German subsidiary of $0.8 million.Whether we will be able to increase our revenue and achieve and sustain profitability on a quarterly and annual basis depends on a number of factors, including: •our ability to secure sufficient orders for our Cray XC30 systems as well as upgrades and successor systems;•successfully delivering and obtaining customer acceptances of our Cray XC30 systems, as well as obtaining customer acceptance of the Cray XK7 system delivered to the Department of Energy's Oak Ridge National Laboratory;•our ability to successfully generate revenue and profitability from opportunities developed from our YarcData and storage and data management businesses;•our ability to scale our internal processes effectively to enable growth;10Table of Contents•the level of revenue recognized in any given period, which is affected by the very high average sales prices and limited number of significant system sales and resulting potential acceptances in any quarter, the timing of product acceptances by customers and contractual provisions affecting the timing and amount of revenue recognition;•revenue delays or losses due to customers postponing purchases to wait for future upgraded or new systems, delays in delivery of upgraded or new systems, longer than expected customer acceptance cycles or penalties resulting from system acceptance issues;•our expense levels, including research and development expense net of government funding;•our ability to successfully and timely design, integrate and secure competitive processors for our Cray XC30 system and upgrades and successors systems; •our ability to secure additional government funding for future development projects such as funding targeted for “exascale” and other computing initiatives as our DARPA HPCS program has been completed;•the level of product gross profit contribution in any given period due to volume or product mix, particularly with the introduction of flexible commodity-based supercomputers, competitive factors, strategic transactions, product life cycle, currency fluctuations, acceptance penalties and component costs;•the competitiveness of our products;•maintaining our product development projects on schedule and within budgetary limitations;•the level and timing of maintenance contract renewals with existing customers; and•the terms and conditions of sale or lease for our products and services.The receipt of orders and the timing of shipments and acceptances impact our quarterly and annual results, including cash flows, and are affected by events outside our control, such as:•the timely availability of acceptable components, including, but not limited to, processors, in sufficient quantities to meet customer delivery schedules;•the timing and level of government funding for product acquisitions and research and development contracts, which may be adversely affected by the current economic and fiscal uncertainties and increased governmental budgetary limitations;•the introduction or announcement of competitive or key industry supplier products;•price fluctuations in the commodity electronics, processor and memory markets;•general economic trends, including changes in levels of customer capital spending;•the availability of adequate customer facilities to install and operate new Cray systems;•currency fluctuations, international conflicts or economic crises, including the ongoing macroeconomic challenges in the United States and the debt crisis in certain countries in the European Union; and•the receipt and timing of necessary export licenses.Because of the numerous factors affecting our revenue and results of operations, we may not have net income on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. We anticipate that our quarterly results will fluctuate significantly, and include losses, even in years where we expect or achieve positive annual net income. Delays in component availability, product development, receipt of orders, level and timing of approved government fiscal budgets, product acceptances, reductions in outside funding for our research and development efforts and achieving contractual development milestones have had a substantial adverse effect on our past results and could continue to have such an effect on our results in 2013 and in future years.If we are unable to successfully develop, sell and deliver our Cray XC30 systems and successor systems, and recognize revenue for these systems, our operating results will be adversely affected. We expect that a substantial portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future will come from acceptances of delivered Cray XC30 and successor systems, including systems integrating future processors. The development effort related to these systems are lengthy and technically challenging processes, and require a significant investment of capital, engineering and other resources often years ahead of the time when we can be assured that they will result in competitive products. We may invest significant resources in alternatives that prove ultimately unfruitful. Unanticipated performance and/or development issues may require more engineers, time or testing resources than are currently available. In the past several years, directing engineering resources to solving current issues has adversely affected the timely development of successor products required for our longer-term product roadmap. Given the breadth of our engineering challenges and our limited engineering and technical personnel resources, we periodically review the anticipated contributions and expense of our product programs to determine their long-term viability, and we may substantially modify or terminate one or more 11Table of Contentsdevelopment programs. We may not be successful in meeting our development schedules for technical reasons and/or because of insufficient engineering resources, which could result in an uncompetitive product or cause a lack of confidence in our capabilities among our key customers. To the extent that we incur delays in completing the design, development and production of hardware components, delays in development of requisite system software, cancellation of programs due to technical or economic infeasibility or investment in unproductive development efforts, our revenue, results of operations and cash flows, and the reputation of such systems in the market, could be adversely affected.In addition, many factors affect our ability to successfully sell and recognize revenue for these systems, including the following:•The level of product differentiation in our Cray XC30 and successor systems. We need to compete successfully against HPC systems from both, large established companies and smaller companies and demonstrate the value of our balanced high bandwidth systems;•Our ability to meet all customer requirements for acceptance. Even once a system has been delivered, we sometimes do not meet all of the contract requirements for customer acceptance and ongoing reliability of our systems within the provided-for acceptance period, which has resulted in contract penalties and delays in our ability to recognize revenue from system deliveries. Most often these penalties have adversely affected gross profit through the provision of additional equipment and services and/or service credits to satisfy delivery delays and performance shortfalls. The risk of contract penalties is increased when we bid for new business prior to completing development of new products when we must estimate future system performance, such as was required with our Cray XC30, Cray XE6, Cray XK6 systems and for subsequent systems;•Our ability to source competitive, key components in appropriate quantities, in a timely fashion and on acceptable terms and conditions. If we underestimated our needs, we could limit the number of possible sales of these products and reduce potential revenue, or if we overestimated, we could incur inventory obsolescence charges and reduce our gross profit, as has happened in the past; and•Whether potential customers delay purchases of our products because they decide to wait for successor systems or upgrades that we have announced or they believe will be available in the future.Failure to successfully develop and sell our Cray XC30 and successor systems into the high-end of the HPC market and recognize revenue for such systems will adversely affect our operating results.If our current and future growth initiatives targeting markets outside of our traditional markets, primarily our YarcData subsidiary, storage and data management business and technical enterprise HPC systems, are not successful, our ability to grow our revenues and achieve and sustain profitability will be adversely affected. Our ability to materially grow our revenues and achieve and sustain profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from growth initiatives targeting markets outside of our traditional market, particularly if those market segments do not grow significantly. We are currently focusing on Big Data analytics and storage and data management opportunities and selling HPC systems into the technical enterprise/midrange supercomputing segment. To grow our revenue from new opportunities outside our primary market, we must continue to win awards for new contracts, timely perform on existing contracts, develop our capability for broader market sales and business development and successfully develop and introduce new solution-oriented offerings, notwithstanding that these are relatively new businesses for Cray and we do not have significant experience targeting these markets. Technical enterprise systems require successful sales in a lower priced segment of the supercomputer market as well as in relatively new commercial market segments. These data analytics and storage and data management opportunities and our technical enterprise efforts require significant monetary investments ahead of revenue, including product development efforts, adding experienced personnel and initiating new marketing and sales efforts and therefore may reduce net income in the short term even if successful.If our Cluster Solutions business is not successful, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our Cluster Solutions business is the result of our acquisition of Appro International, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2012. We have not previously sold a cluster-based solution into the same markets we sell our core HPC systems, and for this business to be successful we must successfully do so without impairing our ability to sell tightly-integrated solutions, such as our Cray XC products. We must also successfully complete the integration of the Appro business into Cray. If we are unable to successfully integrate and grow our Cluster Solutions business, our operating results will be adversely affected.We have recently completed an acquisition, and may make acquisitions in the future, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, deplete our cash reserves and adversely affect our financial results. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:•Difficulties in successfully integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, offerings and personnel of the acquired company or companies;12Table of Contents•Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions;•Diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions;•Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles;•Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;•Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; and•The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans.Acquisitions may also cause us to:•Use a substantial portion of our cash reserves or incur debt;•Issue equity securities or grant equity incentives to acquired employees that would dilute our current shareholders' percentage ownership;•Assume liabilities, including potentially unknown liabilities;•Record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges;•Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets;•Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; or•Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation.Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our recently completed or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results.If the U.S. government and other governments purchase, or fund the purchase of, fewer supercomputers or delay such purchases, our revenue would be reduced and our operating results would be adversely affected. Historically, sales to the U.S. government and customers primarily serving the U.S. government have represented the largest single market segment for supercomputer sales worldwide, including our products and services. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, approximately 62%, 54% and 68%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from such sales. Our plans for the foreseeable future contemplate significant sales to U.S. government agencies and customers primarily serving the U.S. government. Sales to government agencies and customers primarily serving the U.S. government, including further sales pursuant to existing contracts, may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as the potential "sequestration" or other Congressional failures or successes in addressing budget concerns, current economic uncertainty, the downgrading of U.S. government debt, the political climate in the U.S. focusing on cutting or limiting budgets and their effect on government budgets, the limits on federal borrowing capacity, changes in procurement policies, budgetary considerations including Congressional delays in completing appropriation bills as occurred in 2011 and 2012, domestic crises, and international political developments, such as the downgrading of European debt. If agencies and departments of the United States or other governments were to stop, reduce or delay their use and purchases of supercomputers, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. Our reliance on third-party suppliers poses significant risks to our operating results, business and prospects. We rely upon third-party vendors to supply processors for our systems and storage solutions and subsystems and use service providers to co-develop key technologies. We subcontract the manufacture of a majority of the hardware components for our high-end products, including integrated circuits, printed circuit boards, connectors, cables, power supplies and memory parts, on a sole or limited source basis to third-party suppliers. We use contract manufacturers to assemble certain important components for all of our systems. We also rely on third parties to supply key software and hardware capabilities, such as file systems, solution-specific servers and storage subsystems, and in the case of the Cray Sonexion products, we rely on a third-party original equipment manufacturers to supply complete storage systems. Because specific components must be designed into our systems well in advance of initial deliveries of those systems, we are particularly reliant on our processor vendors to deliver on the capabilities and pricing expected at the time we design key elements of the system. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on these and other limited or sole source suppliers, including the following risks:•If a supplier does not provide components or systems that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities on time or deliver when required, then production, delivery, acceptance and revenue from our systems could be delayed and 13Table of Contentswe could be subject to costly penalties even once delivered and accepted, which happened during 2011and 2012 and adversely affected our efforts to complete the acceptance processes on the upgrades at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, which in turn significantly lowered our total revenue for fiscal year 2011 and, to a lesser extent for fiscal year 2012;•If a supplier cannot provide a competitive key component (for example, due to inadequate performance or a prohibitive price) or eliminates key features from components, such as with the processors we design into our systems, our systems may be less competitive than systems using components with greater capabilities;•If an interruption of supply of our components, services or capabilities occurs because a supplier changes its technology roadmap, decides to no longer provide those products or services, increases the price of those products or services significantly or imposes reduced delivery allocations on its customers, it could take us a considerable period of time to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, to redesign our products as necessary and to begin to manufacture the redesigned components or otherwise obtain those services or capabilities. In some cases, such as with key integrated circuits and memory parts or processors, we may not be able to redesign such components or find alternate sources that we could use in any realistic timeframe;•If a supplier of a component is subject to a claim that the component infringes a third-party's intellectual property rights, as has happened with one of our suppliers, our ability to obtain necessary components could be adversely affected or our cost to obtain such components could increase significantly;•If a supplier providing us with key research and development and design services or core technology components with respect to integrated circuit design, network communication capabilities or software is late, fails to provide us with effective functionality or loses key internal talent, our development programs may be delayed or prove to be impossible to complete;•If a supplier provides us with hardware or software that contains bugs or other errors or is different from what we expected, as is occurring with a key component, our development projects and production systems may be adversely affected through reduced performance or capabilities, additional design testing and verification efforts, re-spins of integrated circuits and/or development of replacement components, and the production and sales of our systems could be delayed and systems installed at customer sites could require significant, expensive field component replacements or result in penalties;•Some of our key component and service suppliers are small companies with limited financial and other resources, and consequently may be more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies, which increases the risk that they will be unable to deliver products as needed; and•If a key supplier is acquired or has a significant business change, such as the acquisition of our file system software provider by our competitor Sun Microsystems and the subsequent acquisition of Sun by Oracle, the production and sales of our systems and services may be delayed or adversely affected, or our development programs may be delayed or may be impossible to complete.For example, our DARPA HPCS project was adversely affected by changes by a major microprocessor supplier in its high performance technology roadmap that affected our ability to complete that program successfully and resulted in a reduction in the amount of funding we could receive from DARPA by $60 million. Certain delays in the availability of acceptable components, including processors and memory parts, and increases in order lead times for certain components, adversely affected our revenue and operating results in prior periods, including in 2011 and 2012, and could adversely affect future results. If we are unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive HPC market, our business will not be successful. The market for HPC systems is very competitive. An increase in competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in pricing reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share and revenue. Many of our competitors are established companies well known in the HPC market, including IBM, NEC, Hewlett-Packard, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Silicon Graphics International, and Bull S.A. Most of these competitors have substantially greater research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we do. We also compete with systems builders and resellers of systems that are constructed from commodity components using processors manufactured by Intel, AMD and others. These competitors include the companies named above and Dell, with IBM using both third-party processors and its own proprietary processors, as well as smaller companies that benefit from the low research and development costs needed to assemble systems from commercially available commodity products. Such companies, because they can offer high peak performance per dollar, can put pricing pressure on us in certain competitive procurements. In addition, to the extent that Intel, IBM and other processor suppliers develop processors with greater capabilities or at a lower cost than the processors we currently use, our Cray XC systems may be at a competitive disadvantage to systems utilizing such other processors until we can design in, integrate and secure competitive processors, if at all.14Table of ContentsPeriodic announcements by our competitors of new HPC systems or plans for future systems and price adjustments may reduce customer demand for our products. Many of our potential customers already own or lease high performance computer systems. Some of our competitors may offer substantial discounts to potential customers. We have in the past and may again be required to provide substantial discounts to make strategic sales, which may reduce or eliminate any gross profit on such transactions, or to provide lease financing for our products, which could result in a deferral of our receipt of cash and revenue for these systems. These developments limit our revenue and resources and reduce our ability to be profitable.The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware and software has resulted in pricing pressure and may adversely affect our operating results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware, particularly processors and interconnect systems, and the growing commoditization of software, including plentiful building blocks and more capable open source software, as well as the potential for integration of differentiated technology into already-commoditized components, has resulted in, and may result in pricing pressure that may cause us to reduce our pricing in order to remain competitive which can negatively impact our gross margins and adversely affect our operating results.We may not realize the anticipated benefits, or minimize the possible risks, of the sale of certain interconnect hardware assets to Intel Corporation, which could alter the revenue, costs and nature of our business. In connection with our sale of certain interconnect hardware assets to Intel, we conducted business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. Additionally, the process of transitioning our employees and technologies to Intel may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and could involve a number of potential adverse risks to our business, including the following:•harm to our ability to compete in relevant markets or in customer perception of our products;•unanticipated costs, adverse tax consequences and unforeseen accounting charges or fluctuations;•exposure to potential liabilities to third parties or Intel, or claims for indemnification by Intel, including with respect to third-party litigation matters;•failure to successfully further develop our current products or disruption to our current or future product roadmaps and ongoing business;•delays and difficulties in receiving key components for our products from suppliers, including Intel;•loss of customers, vendors or alliances; and•failure to create shareholder value with the additional cash resources. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from the transaction, or to minimize the expected risks of the transaction, whether as a result of unidentified risks or other unforeseen events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.If we cannot retain, attract and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled management, development, marketing, sales and service personnel. The loss of and failure to replace key engineering management and personnel could adversely affect multiple development efforts. Recruitment and retention of senior management and skilled technical, sales and other personnel is very competitive, and we may not be successful in either attracting or retaining such personnel. From time to time, we have lost key personnel to other high technology companies. As part of our strategy to attract and retain key personnel, we may offer equity compensation through stock options and restricted stock grants. Potential employees, however, may not perceive our equity incentives as attractive enough. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses particularly in the case of personnel associated with our "Big Data" efforts.Customers and other third parties may make statements speculating about or announcing an intention to complete purchases or acceptances of Cray products before such purchases or acceptances are substantially certain, and these proposed purchases or acceptances may not be completed when or as expected, if at all. From time to time, customers and other third parties may make statements speculating about or announcing a potential purchase of Cray products before Cray has obtained an order for such purchases or completed negotiations and signed a contract for the purchase of such products. In some instances, government and government-funded customers may announce possible purchases even before they have obtained the necessary budget to procure the products. As a result, these statements or announcements do not mean that Cray will ultimately be able to secure the sale when or as expected or at all as it is not certain that the contract or order negotiations will be completed successfully or as expected or that the customer will be able to obtain the budget they hope for or expect. In addition, from time to time, customers and other third parties may make statements speculating about or announcing the completion of an acceptance 15Table of Contentsprocess of a delivery system before such acceptance is completed or certain. As a result, these statements or announcements do not mean that Cray will ultimately be able to obtain the acceptance when or as expected.We are subject to increasing government regulations and other requirements due to the nature of our business, which may adversely affect our business operations. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, 62%, 54% and 68% respectively, of our revenue was derived from the U.S. government or customers primarily serving the U.S. government. In addition to normal business risks, our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to particular risks, including:The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate may extend for several years; however, these programs are normally funded annually. Changes in U.S. strategy and priorities may affect our future procurement opportunities and existing programs. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation, or delay, if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. The termination of funding for existing or new U.S. government programs could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts with us. The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts with us, without prior notice at its convenience upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our U.S. government contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. government agencies. U.S. government representatives may audit the costs we incur on our U.S. government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities or non-compliance with the terms of a specific contract, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government.Our business is subject to potential U.S. government inquiries and investigations. We may be subject to U.S. government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our U.S. government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to secure future U.S. government contracts.U.S. export controls could hinder our ability to make sales to foreign customers and our future prospects. The U.S. government regulates the export of HPC systems such as our products. Occasionally we have experienced delays for up to several months in receiving appropriate approvals necessary for certain sales, which have delayed the shipment of our products. Delay or denial in the granting of any required licenses could make it more difficult to make sales to certain foreign customers, eliminating an important source of potential revenue. Our ability to have certain components manufactured in certain foreign countries for a lower cost has also been adversely affected by export restrictions covering information necessary to allow such foreign manufacturers to manufacture components for us.Our stock price is volatile. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including our quarterly operating results, changes in analysts' estimates or our outlook, our capital raising activities, announcements of technological innovations and customer contracts by us or our competitors, a significant aggressive seller or buyer, general economic conditions and conditions in our industry.We may infringe or be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties in the past have asserted, and may in the future assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. As a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise decide that it is appropriate to:•pay third-party infringement claims;•discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products subject to infringement claims;16Table of Contents•discontinue using the technology or processes subject to infringement claims;•develop other technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; or•license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.Regardless of the merits, any intellectual property infringement claim would require management attention and could be expensive to defend.We incorporate software licensed from third parties into the operating systems for our products as well as in our tools to design products and any significant interruption in the availability of these third party software products or defects in these products could reduce the demand for our products or cause delay in development. The operating system as well as other software we develop for our HPC systems contains components that are licensed to us under open source software licenses. Our business could be disrupted if this software, or functional equivalents of this software, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case we would be required to redesign our operating system software to function with alternative third-party software, or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in product shipments. Our supercomputer systems utilize software system variants that incorporate Linux technology. The open source licenses under which we have obtained certain components of our operating system software may not be enforceable. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that Linux-based operating systems, or significant portions of them, may not be copied, modified or distributed as provided in those licenses, would adversely affect our ability to sell our systems. In addition, as a result of concerns about the risks of litigation and open source software generally, we may be forced to protect our customers from potential claims of infringement. In any such event, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.We also incorporate proprietary incidental software from third parties, such as for file systems, job scheduling and storage subsystems. We have experienced some functional issues in the past with implementing such software with our supercomputer systems. In addition, we may not be able to secure needed software systems on acceptable terms, which may make our systems less attractive to potential customers. These issues may result in lost revenue, additional expense by us and/or loss of customer confidence.We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 at the end of each fiscal year, and any adverse results from such future evaluations could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-K as to whether we have any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Depending on their nature and severity, any future material weaknesses could result in our having to restate financial statements, could make it difficult or impossible for us to obtain an audit of our annual financial statements or could result in a qualification of any such audit. In such events, we could experience a number of adverse consequences, including our inability to comply with applicable reporting and listing requirements, a loss of market confidence in our publicly available information, delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market, an inability to complete a financing, loss of other financing sources such as our line of credit, and litigation based on the events themselves or their consequences.We may not be able to protect our proprietary information and rights adequately. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret protection, nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish, protect and enforce our proprietary information and rights. We have a number of patents and have additional applications pending. There can be no assurance, however, that patents will be issued from the pending applications or that any issued patents will adequately protect those aspects of our technology to which such patents will relate. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that we will succeed in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Additionally, under certain conditions, the U.S. government might obtain non-exclusive rights to certain of our intellectual property. Although we continue to implement protective measures and intend to defend our proprietary rights vigorously, these efforts may not be successful.We maintain confidential and proprietary information on our computer networks and employ security measures designed to protect this information from unauthorized access. If our security measures are breached, we could lose proprietary data and may suffer economic losses. We maintain confidential information on our computer networks, including information and data that are proprietary to our customers and third parties, as well as to us. Although we have designed and 17Table of Contentsemployed and continue to enhance a multitude of security measures to protect this information from unauthorized access, security breaches may occur as a result of third-party action, including computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, that could result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. Because the techniques employed by hackers to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in disclosure of our trade secrets or disclosure of confidential customer, supplier or employee data. If this should happen, we could be exposed to potentially significant legal liability, remediation expense, harm to our reputation and other harm to our business.Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could make a proposed acquisition of Cray that is not approved by our Board of Directors more difficult. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. For example, our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws provide for:•removal of a director only in limited circumstances and only upon the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote to elect directors;•the ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock;•no cumulative voting of shares;•the right of shareholders to call a special meeting of the shareholders only upon demand by the holders of not less than 30% of the shares entitled to vote at such a meeting;•the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on an amendment, unless the amendment was approved by a majority of our continuing directors, who are defined as directors who have either served as a director since August 31, 1995, or were nominated to be a director by the continuing directors;•special voting requirements for mergers and other business combinations, unless the proposed transaction was approved by a majority of continuing directors;•special procedures to bring matters before our shareholders at our annual shareholders' meeting; and•special procedures to nominate members for election to our Board of Directors.These provisions could delay, defer or prevent a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business transaction between us and a third party that is not approved by our Board of Directors.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.