Item 1A. Risk Factors The following describes certain of the risks and uncertainties we face that could cause our future results to differ materially from our current results and from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements. These risk factors should be considered together with the other risks and uncertainties described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere herein. This list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. The cyclical nature of the aluminum industry causes variability in our earnings and cash flows. Our operating results depend on the market for primary aluminum, which is a highly cyclical commodity with prices that are affected by global demand and supply, political and economic conditions and other related factors. For example, aluminum warehouse inventory levels were at or near historically high levels in 2010 and 2011, which may cause primary aluminum prices to fall as such inventory enters the market. Historically, aluminum prices have been volatile, and we expect such volatility to continue. Declines in primary aluminum prices reduce our earnings and cash flows. If the price we realize for our products falls below our cost of production, we may choose or be forced to curtail operations to fund our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to take actions necessary to curtail operations, if these steps are required. Future downturns in aluminum prices may significantly reduce the amount of cash available to meet our obligations and fund our long-term business strategies and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and liquidity. Disruptions to our raw material and electricity supply arrangements could increase our production costs. Our business depends upon the adequate supply of alumina, electricity, aluminum fluoride, calcined petroleum coke, pitch, finished carbon anodes and cathodes and other raw materials at competitive prices. Disruptions to the supply of these production inputs could occur for a variety of reasons, including disruptions of production at a particular supplier’s facility or power plant, as applicable. For some of these production inputs, such as power and anode supply, we rely on a single or limited number of suppliers. Any disruption may require us to purchase these products on the spot market on less favorable terms than under our current agreements due to the limited number of suppliers of these products or other market conditions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain alumina in the future at prices that are based on the LME. Because we sell our products based on the LME price for primary aluminum, we would not be able to pass on any increased costs of raw material that are not linked to the LME price to our customers. A disruption in our materials or electricity supply may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to secure alternate supplies of materials at comparable prices. Certain of our alumina and electricity supply contracts contain “take-or-pay” obligations. We have obligations under certain contracts to take-or-pay for specified quantities of alumina and electricity over the term of those contracts regardless of our operating requirements. Our financial position and results of operations may therefore be adversely affected by the market price for alumina and electric power even if we were to curtail unprofitable production capacity (or delay construction of new capacity) as we will continue to incur costs under these contracts to meet or settle our contractual take-or-pay obligations. If we were unable to use such electrical power or raw materials in our operations or sell them at prices consistent with or greater than our contract costs, we could incur significant losses under these contracts. In addition, these commitments may also limit our ability to take advantage of favorable changes in the market prices for electricity or raw materials and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. - 13 - Table of Contents Increases in electricity costs adversely affect our business. Electricity represents our single largest operating cost. As a result, the availability of electricity at economic prices is critical to the profitability of our operations. Portions of the contracted cost of the electricity supplied to Mt. Holly and all of Hawesville’s electricity costs vary with the supplier’s costs. An increase in these costs would increase the price these facilities pay for electricity. Costs under the Hawesville and Mt. Holly electricity contracts have substantially increased in recent years with rising fuel prices. As these contracts have take-or-pay type provisions, the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Hawesville and Mt. Holly may be adversely affected by the price for electric power even if we curtail unprofitable production capacity. Significant increases in electricity costs at any of our operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Losses caused by disruptions in our supply of power would adversely affect our operations. We use large amounts of electricity to produce primary aluminum. Any loss of power which reduces the amperage to our equipment or causes an equipment shutdown would result in a reduction in the volume of molten aluminum produced, and prolonged losses of power may result in the hardening or “freezing” of molten aluminum in the pots where it is produced, which could require an expensive and time consuming restart process. Interruptions in the supply of electrical power to our facilities can be caused by a number of circumstances, including unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment or transformer failure, human error, malicious acts, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. See “Unpredictable events, including natural disasters, dangerous weather conditions, terrorist attacks and political unrest, may adversely affect our ability to conduct business.” At several of our facilities, an alternative supply of power in the event of a disruption may not be feasible. If such a condition were to occur, we may lose production for a prolonged period of time and incur significant losses. We operate our plants at close to peak amperage. Accordingly, even partial failures of high voltage equipment could affect our production. We maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, but are required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, the coverage under those policies may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not cover certain events. Certain of our insurance policies do not cover any losses that may be incurred if our suppliers are unable to provide power during periods of unusually high demand. Certain losses or prolonged interruptions in our operations may trigger a default under certain of our outstanding indebtedness and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. International operations expose us to political, regulatory, currency and other related risks. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations, primarily in Iceland. These operations expose us to risks, including unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations, political and economic instability, challenges in managing foreign operations, increased costs to adapt our systems and practices to those used in foreign countries, taxes, export duties, currency restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. Changes in foreign laws and regulations are generally beyond our ability to control, influence or predict and future adverse changes in these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we may be exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and, as a result, an increase in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could increase our operating expenses which are denominated and payable in those currencies. As we continue to explore other opportunities outside the U.S., including the Helguvik project, our currency risk with respect to the Icelandic Krona and other foreign currencies will significantly increase. - 14 - Table of Contents If economic, financial and political conditions in Iceland were to deteriorate, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Iceland is important to our business. Disruptions in Iceland’s economic, financial and political systems have decreased the stability of Iceland’s economy and financial markets and made cash management activities in Iceland more challenging. For example, the Icelandic government and the Central Bank of Iceland are restricting the free transfer of funds outside of Iceland and, specifically, foreign currency within and outside of Iceland. While we are currently exempt from these foreign currency rules, we cannot control further actions by the Central Bank of Iceland which might restrict our ability to transfer funds through the Icelandic banking system and outside of Iceland. While we currently maintain essentially all of our Icelandic operating funds in accounts outside of Iceland, and are receiving substantially all of our customer payments in such accounts, a portion of our funds remain in the Icelandic banks to meet local working capital requirements. In addition, as payables become due in Iceland, we must transfer funds through the Icelandic banking system. If economic, financial or political conditions in Iceland deteriorate, or if counterparties and lenders become unwilling to engage in normal banking relations with and within Iceland, our ability to operate our Grundartangi smelter, including paying vendors, processing payroll and receiving payments, as well as our ability to complete the Helguvik project could be adversely impacted, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Curtailment of unprofitable aluminum production at our U.S. facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Curtailing unprofitable production to reduce our operating costs requires us to incur substantial expense, both at the time of the curtailment and on an ongoing basis. Our facilities are subject to contractual and other fixed costs that continue even if we curtail operations at these facilities. These costs reduce the cost saving advantages of curtailing unprofitable aluminum production. In addition, the prospect of these costs and our joint ownership of certain of our operations limit our flexibility to curtail unprofitable production. If we are unable to realize the intended effects of any production curtailment, including at our currently curtailed Ravenswood facility, or if any production curtailment does not achieve sufficient reduction in operating expenses, we may have to seek bankruptcy protection for some or all of our U.S. subsidiaries and/or may be forced to divest some or all of our U.S. subsidiaries. If we were to seek bankruptcy protection for these subsidiaries, we would face additional risks. Such action could cause concern among our customers and suppliers generally, distract our management and our other employees and subject us to increased risks of lawsuits. Other negative consequences could include negative publicity, which could have a material negative impact on the trading price of our securities and negatively affect our ability to raise capital in the future. Any curtailments of our U.S. operations, or actions taken to seek bankruptcy protection or divest some or all of our U.S. subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We require substantial resources to pay our operating expenses and fund our capital expenditures. We require substantial resources to pay our operating expenses and fund our capital expenditures, including construction at our Helguvik smelter site and the investment programs at our Grundartangi and Hawesville smelters. In addition, if we were to resume operations at our Ravenswood smelter, we would incur substantial capital expenditures, working capital funding and operating expenses. If we are unable to generate funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses and fund our capital expenditures and other obligations, our ability to continue to meet these cash requirements in the future could require substantial liquidity and access to sources of funds, including from capital and credit markets. Changes in global economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity, and the success of plans to manage costs, inventory and other important elements of our business, may significantly impact our ability to generate funds from operations. If, among other factors, primary aluminum prices were to decline, our costs are higher than contemplated, we suffer unexpected production outages, or Icelandic laws change and either increase our tax obligations or limit our access to cash flow from our Icelandic operations, we would need to identify additional sources of liquidity. - 15 - Table of Contents If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unacceptable terms, we may be unable to respond to competitive pressures, take advantage of market opportunities or fund operations, capital expenditure or other obligations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our business and growth prospects may be negatively impacted by past or future reductions in our capital expenditures or curtailment of production capacity. In response to the global economic downturn and related disruptions in the financial markets, in 2008 and 2009 we curtailed significant production capacity and reduced capital expenditures. Certain of these assets remain curtailed or delayed, including our Ravenswood smelter and the development of our Helguvik smelter. Our ability to take advantage of improved market conditions may be constrained by these earlier curtailments, capital expenditure restrictions and other similar actions, and the long-term value of our business could be adversely impacted. Our position in relation to our competitors may also deteriorate. We may also be required to address commercial and political issues in relation to our reductions in capital expenditures or operational curtailment in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, if we do not eventually resume operations at Ravenswood, we may be required to recognize a loss related to all or a portion of the assets of this facility. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Construction at our Helguvik smelter site has been significantly curtailed. Substantial delay in the completion of this project may increase its cost and impose other risks to completion that are not foreseeable at this time. Nordural Helguvik ehf, our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, has significantly curtailed construction activity and spending at our Helguvik project in response to the recent global economic conditions, Icelandic economic and political conditions and ongoing discussions with the power companies contracted to provide power to the Helguvik project. See “If we are unable to procure a reliable source of power, the Helguvik project may not be feasible,” and “If economic and political conditions in Iceland deteriorate further, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely impacted.” Nordural Helguvik cannot be certain when or if it will restart major construction and engineering activities or ultimately complete the Helguvik project or, if completed, that the Helguvik smelter would operate in a profitable manner. We will not realize any return on our significant investment in the Helguvik project until we are able to commence Helguvik operations in a profitable manner. If we fail to achieve operations at Helguvik, we may have to recognize a loss on our investment, which would have a material adverse impact on our future earnings. If we decide to proceed with the Helguvik project, this project is subject to various contractual approvals and conditions. Many of the contractual arrangements related to the Helguvik project have time periods for performance. The delay in restarting major construction and completing the Helguvik project has caused Nordural Helguvik to renegotiate and extend, or undertake to renegotiate and extend, existing contractual commitments, including with respect to power, transmission, technology, equipment and construction. There can be no assurance that the contractual arrangements and conditions, including extensions, necessary to proceed with construction of the Helguvik project will be obtained or satisfied on a timely basis or at all. In addition, such approvals or extensions may be subject to conditions that are unfavorable or make the project impracticable or less attractive from a financial standpoint. Even if we receive the necessary approvals and extensions on terms that we determine are acceptable, the construction of this project is a complex undertaking. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the project within our projected budget and schedule. To successfully execute this project, we will also need to procure a reliable source of power, arrange additional financing and either enter into tolling arrangements or secure a supply of alumina as well as other raw materials. In addition, unforeseen technical difficulties could increase the cost of the project, delay the project or render the project infeasible. - 16 - Table of Contents We intend to finance our future capital expenditures from future capital raising, available cash and cash flow from operations. We may be unable to raise additional capital, or do so on attractive terms, due to a number of factors, including a lack of demand, poor economic conditions, interruptions in the capital markets, unfavorable interest rates or our financial condition or credit rating at the time. If additional capital resources are unavailable, we may further curtail construction and development activities. Further delay in the completion of the project or increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we are unable to procure a reliable source of power, the Helguvik project may not be feasible. The Helguvik project will require generation and transmission of a substantial amount of electricity to power the smelter. Nordural Helguvik has entered into agreements with two providers of geothermal power, HS and OR. Each of HS and OR has alleged that certain conditions to the delivery of power under the power agreements have not yet been satisfied. If we are unable to reach agreement with each of HS and OR, we may have to seek alternative sources of power, incur substantially increased power costs or further curtail construction activities of the Helguvik project. Due to the limited number of Icelandic power providers with resources sufficient to provide power to the Helguvik project (only three are currently in operation in Iceland), we may find it difficult or impossible to procure additional sources of power if HS and OR do not perform under their existing agreements and may be unable to complete construction of the smelter. If we agree to pay increased prices for power or substantially delay or are unable to complete the Helguvik project, we may have to recognize a substantial loss on our investment. Any failure to complete the Helguvik project could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The generation of the contracted power for the Helguvik project will also require successful development of new geothermal energy sources within designated areas in Iceland and completion of the necessary transmission infrastructure to service the Helguvik project. If there are construction delays or technical difficulties in developing these new geothermal energy sources or transmission infrastructure, power may be delayed or may not be available. Development of the generation and transmission infrastructure is expensive and requires significant resources from the power and transmission providers. Factors which could delay or impede the generation and transmission of electric power are substantially beyond our ability to control, influence or predict, including the power and transmission providers’ ability to finance and obtain necessary permits, real property and other rights for the development of new geothermal energy sources and associated transmission infrastructure. In addition, if Nordural Helguvik is unable to proceed with the Helguvik project, it may incur significant reimbursement obligations for certain costs incurred by third party providers under transmission and other agreements entered into in connection with the Helguvik project and remain subject to significant power commitments already confirmed under its agreement with OR. If the power or transmission providers are unable to provide or transmit the contracted amounts of power, such failure could substantially delay or make the Helguvik project infeasible and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Union disputes could raise our production costs or impair our production operations. The bargaining unit employees at our Grundartangi, Hawesville and Ravenswood smelters are represented by labor unions. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with any labor union representing our employees, our labor contracts may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of these facilities in the future. Any threatened or actual work stoppage in the future or inability to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements could prevent or significantly impair our ability to conduct production operations at our unionized facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. - 17 - Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by the loss of a major customer or changes in the business or financial condition of our major customers. In 2011, we derived approximately 80% of our consolidated sales from our three major customers: Southwire Glencore and BHP Billiton. We currently have long-term primary aluminum sales or tolling contracts with each of these customers. However, a significant downturn or further deterioration in the business or financial condition of one of these major customers could affect our results of operations. In addition, a loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our ability to access the credit and capital markets on acceptable terms may be limited due to our credit ratings, our financial condition or the deterioration of these markets. Our credit rating was adversely affected by the downturn in global economic and financial conditions, curtailment of our Ravenswood smelter and the substantial levels of our existing indebtedness. Our availability under our revolving credit facility is dependent on our domestic accounts receivable and inventory which secure the facility. Curtailment of production capacity at Ravenswood has reduced the amount of domestic accounts receivable and inventory available to secure this facility and further curtailments of domestic production capacity could further reduce availability under our revolving credit facility. Our existing credit ratings, or any future negative actions the credit agencies may take, could negatively affect our ability to access the credit and capital markets in the future and could lead to worsened trade terms, increasing our liquidity needs. An inability to access capital and credit markets when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may be unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry. Aluminum also competes with other materials, such as steel, copper, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications. Many of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial and technical resources than we do. These larger competitors may be better able to withstand reductions in price or other adverse industry or economic conditions. Similarly, competitors with superior cost positions to ours may be better able to withstand reductions in price or other adverse industry or economic conditions. If we are not able to compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Because we own less than a majority of some of our operating assets, we cannot exercise complete control over their operations. We have limited control over the operation of some of our operating assets, including the Mt. Holly smelter and the BHH carbon anode and cathode facility, because we beneficially own less than a majority of the ownership interests in such assets. While we seek to exert as much influence with respect to the management and operation of such assets as possible, we are dependent on our co-owners to operate such assets. Our co-owners may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resource management and other attributes to operate these assets optimally. In addition, our co-owners may have interests, objectives and incentives with respect to such assets that differ from our own. - 18 - Table of Contents We require significant cash flow to meet our debt service requirements, which increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, reduces cash available for other purposes and limits our operational flexibility. As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of approximately $257 million principal amount of outstanding debt. We may incur additional debt in the future. The level of our debt could have important consequences, including: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; · reducing cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, working capital and other general corporate purposes, because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; and · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competitive and other changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. We have various obligations to make payments in cash that will reduce the amount of cash available to make interest payments required on our outstanding debt and for other uses. Our industrial revenue bonds (“IRBs”) and any future borrowings on our credit facility are at variable interest rates, and future borrowings required to fund working capital at our businesses, construction of the Helguvik project, acquisitions, or other strategic opportunities may be at variable rates. An increase in interest rates would increase our debt service obligations under these instruments, further limiting cash flow available for other uses. In addition to our debt, we have liabilities and other obligations which could reduce cash available for other purposes and could limit our operational flexibility. Our ability to pay interest on and to repay or refinance our debt and to satisfy other commitments will depend upon our access to additional sources of liquidity and future operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, including market prices for primary aluminum, that are beyond our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay debt service obligations, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could attempt to restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity or debt capital. There can be no assurance that we would be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms, or at all, and if we are unable to ultimately meet our debt service obligations and fund our other liquidity needs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Despite our substantial level of debt, we may incur more debt, which could exacerbate any or all of the risks described above. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. Although the loan and security agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 8.0% Senior Secured Notes due 2014 (the “8.0% Notes”) limits our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, as of December 31, 2011, approximately $58 million was available to us for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. In addition, the loan and security agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 8.0% Notes do not prevent us from incurring certain obligations that do not constitute debt as defined in these agreements. To the extent that we incur additional debt or such other obligations, the risks associated with our substantial debt described above, including our possible inability to service our debt or other obligations, would increase. - 19 - Table of Contents Our debt instruments subject us to covenants and restrictions Our existing debt instruments contain various covenants that restrict the way we conduct our business and limit our ability to incur debt, pay dividends and engage in transactions such as acquisitions and investments, among other things, which may impair our ability to obtain additional liquidity and grow our business. Any failure to comply with those covenants would likely constitute a breach under such debt instruments which may result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness and termination of commitments under our revolving credit facility. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may be unable to repay the required amounts and our secured lenders could foreclose on any collateral securing our secured debt. Any of the foregoing actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We depend upon intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends upon the receipt of intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries. Subject to the restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 8.0% Notes, future borrowings by our subsidiaries could contain restrictions or prohibitions on intercompany transfers by those subsidiaries. In addition, under applicable law, our subsidiaries could be limited in the amounts that they are permitted to pay as dividends on their capital stock. For example, the Icelandic government and the Central Bank of Iceland are currently restricting the free transfer of funds outside of Iceland. While we are currently exempt from these foreign currency rules, we cannot control further actions by the Central Bank of Iceland, which might restrict our ability to transfer funds through the Icelandic banking system and outside of Iceland. Future declines in the financial markets and/or our curtailment actions could have significant and adverse effects on our pension funding obligations. We maintain two qualified defined benefit plans, and contribute to a third, on behalf of our employees. As a result of poor investment returns, the benefit plans we maintain were underfunded as of December 31, 2011. If capital markets experience further significant losses, pension fund balances would likely fall and additional cash contributions to the pension funds will be required. Additionally, in June 2011, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”) informed us that it believed that a “cessation of operations” under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) had occurred at our Ravenswood facility as a result of the curtailment of operations at the facility and requested that we engage in discussions with the PBGC relating thereto. While we do not believe a “cessation of operations” under ERISA has occurred, if such a determination is ultimately made by the PBGC, it may be necessary for Century Aluminum of West Virginia to accelerate the timing of additional contributions to certain of its defined pension plans or post other collateral with the PBGC or negotiate an alternative agreement. We may be required to write down the book value of certain assets. We are required to perform various analyses related to the carrying value of various assets whenever events or circumstances indicate that their net carrying amount may not be recoverable. Given the recent lack of profitability of certain of our production facilities and recent global economic conditions, which in part drive assumptions for the future in such analyses, we could have significant adjustments in the carrying value for certain assets. In the future, we will continue to evaluate our assets for impairments and valuation allowance, which could be significant. Any such adjustments would be in the form of a non-cash charge which would reduce our earnings and reduce our balance of retained earnings. - 20 - Table of Contents Climate change, climate change legislation or regulations and greenhouse effects may adversely impact our operations. Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions are the subject of significant attention in the countries in which we operate and a number of governments or governmental bodies in these countries have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change. For example, as a member of the European Economic Area and a signatory to the Kyoto Protocol, Iceland has implemented legislation to abide by the Kyoto Protocol and prepare to abide by Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament which establishes a “cap and trade” scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. Because Iceland was granted emissions allowances under the Kyoto Protocol through 2012, Iceland has not yet implemented Directive 2003/87/EC, but it is anticipated that Iceland will begin complying with the Directive in 2013. In addition, we are aware of proposed U.S. legislation that if enacted, among other things, would implement a “cap and trade” system of allowances and credits in the United States. Implementation of these potential regulatory changes or others is uncertain and may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly through customers or our supply chain. As a result of the foregoing, we may incur increased capital expenditures resulting from required compliance with such regulatory changes, increased energy costs, costs to purchase or profits from sales of, allowances or credits under a “cap and trade” system, increased insurance premiums and deductibles, a change in competitive position relative to industry peers and changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for goods produced by us and indirectly, from changes in costs of goods sold. For example, “cap and trade” legislation may impose significant additional costs to our power suppliers that could lead to significant increases in our energy costs. In addition, the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and will be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, shortages of water or other natural resources, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. Any adverse regulatory and physical changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations that could result in costs or liabilities. We are obligated to comply with various federal, state and other environmental laws and regulations, including the environmental laws and regulations of the United States, Iceland, China and the EU. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to costs or liabilities relating to our manufacturing operations or property ownership. We incur operating costs and capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we are currently and may in the future be responsible for the cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former facilities or for the amelioration of damage to natural resources. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, previously unknown environmental conditions or damages to natural resources are discovered or alleged, or if contributions from other responsible parties with respect to sites for which we have cleanup responsibilities are not available, we may be subject to additional liability, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Further, additional environmental matters for which we may be liable may arise in the future at our present sites where no problem is currently known, with respect to sites previously owned or operated by us, by related corporate entities or by our predecessors, or at sites that we may acquire in the future. In addition, overall production costs may become prohibitively expensive and prevent us from effectively competing in price sensitive markets if future capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance or cleanup are significantly greater than current or projected expenditures and costs. Unpredictable events, including natural disasters, dangerous weather conditions, terrorist attacks and political unrest, may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from operations in areas that have heightened risk of natural disasters, including Iceland. Iceland suffered several natural disasters in 2010 and 2011, including significant volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. In addition, our Grundartangi smelter lost power for approximately three hours in January 2012 as the result of damage sustained due to abnormal and extreme weather conditions at an offsite electrical substation owned and operated by the national power grid operator. - 21 - Table of Contents Future unpredictable events, including natural disasters, dangerous weather conditions, terrorist attacks and political unrest, may adversely affect our ability to conduct business by causing disruptions in Icelandic, Chinese, U.S. or global economic conditions, inflicting loss of life, damaging property and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage and restore operations at our production facilities. Acquisitions may present difficulties. We have a history of making acquisitions and we expect to opportunistically seek to make acquisitions in the future. We are subject to numerous risks as a result of our acquisition strategy, including the following: · we may spend time and money pursuing acquisitions that do not close; · acquired companies may have contingent or unidentified liabilities; · it may be challenging for us to manage our existing business as we integrate acquired operations; · we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions; and · management of acquisitions will require continued development of financial controls and information systems, which may prove to be expensive, time-consuming and difficult to maintain. Accordingly, our past or future acquisitions might not ultimately improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated and may subject us to additional liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Any restart of the Ravenswood smelter would involve significant risks and uncertainties In 2009, we curtailed all operations at our Ravenswood smelter. Any potential restart of operations at the Ravenswood smelter would involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: · we may spend time and incur significant costs and liabilities pursuing a restart that does not occur or that does not achieve the anticipated benefits; and · it may be challenging for us to manage our existing business as we restart operations at Ravenswood. Accordingly, any potential restart of operations at Ravenswood might not ultimately improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated and may subject us to additional liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our ability to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” under the Internal Revenue Code. As of December 31, 2011, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.4 billion, after adjusting for losses carried back to previous tax years, which could offset future taxable income. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change would occur if our “five−percent shareholders,” as defined under the Code, collectively increase their ownership in us by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three−year period. Future transactions in our stock that may not be in our control may cause us to experience an ownership change and thus limit our ability to utilize net operating losses, tax credits and other tax assets to offset future taxable income. - 22 - Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and state law may make it difficult for others to obtain control of Century Aluminum, even though some stockholders may consider them to be beneficial; Glencore’s ownership interest in us may also deter any change in control of us. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Century, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise have received a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. For examples, these provisions: · give authority to our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any stockholder vote; · provide for a board of directors consisting of three classes, each of which serves for a different three-year term; · require stockholders to give advance notice prior to submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders’ meetings or to nominate persons for election as directors; and · restrict certain business combinations between us and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, while our Tax Benefit Preservation Plan expired in 2010, our board of directors could re-implement the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan or other similar plan that would cause substantial dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant interest in us without advance approval from our board of directors. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Our relationship with Glencore may also deter a takeover. As of December 31, 2011, we believe that Glencore beneficially owned, through its common stock, approximately 42% of our issued and outstanding common stock and, through its ownership of common and preferred stock, an overall 46% economic ownership of Century. In addition, four members of our Board of Directors are employees or former employees of Glencore. - 23 - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 