Risk Factors The following factors should be considered in evaluating our business, operations, prospects and common stock as they may affect our future results and financial condition and they may affect an investment in our securities. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and we may not achieve profitability in any given period. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to the factors listed below, which make estimating revenue and operating results for any specific period very difficult, particularly as the product revenue recognized in any given quarter may depend on a very limited number of system sales expected for that quarter, the timing of product acceptances by customers and contractual provisions affecting revenue recognition. For example, a substantial portion of our product revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008 came from a few major transactions involving our quad-core Cray XT5 system, including approximately $100 million from the acceptance of the petaflops system at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in December 2008. Delays in recognizing revenue from a product transaction due to development delays, not receiving needed components timely or with anticipated quality and performance, not achieving product acceptances, contractual provisions or for other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in any specific 2009 quarter, and could shift associated revenue, gross profit and cash receipts into another fiscal quarter or year. 13 Table of Contents We have experienced net losses in recent periods. We last reported positive net income for 2003. Recently, for example, we reported a net loss of $12.1 million in 2006, a net loss of $5.7 million in 2007 and a net loss of $31.3 million, including a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $54.5 million, in 2008. Whether we will be able to increase our revenue and achieve and sustain profitability on a quarterly and annual basis depends on a number of factors, including: • successfully completing development and selling of our Cray XT5 system, including upgrades and successor systems; • the level of revenue recognized in any given period, which is affected by the very high average sales prices and limited number of system sales in any quarter, the timing of product acceptances by customers and contractual provisions affecting the timing and amount of revenue recognition; • the successful expansion of our Custom Engineering program, including winning new contracts in time for performance in 2009 and subsequent years; • the building of a reseller network for our Cray CX1 system and achieving significant sales of Cray CX1 systems; • the competitiveness of our products, which may be affected by the competitiveness of key components from suppliers; • our expense levels, including research and development net of government funding, which are affected by the level and timing of such funding and the meeting of developmental milestones; • maintaining our product development projects on schedule and within budgetary limitations; • the level of product gross profit contribution in any given period due to product mix, strategic transactions, product life cycle and component costs; • the level and timing of maintenance contract renewals with existing customers; • revenue delays or losses due to customers postponing purchases to wait for future upgraded or new systems, delays in delivery of upgraded or new systems and longer than expected customer acceptance cycles; and • the terms and conditions of sale or lease for our products; and The receipt of orders and the timing of shipments and acceptances impact our quarterly and annual results and are affected by events outside our control, such as: • the timely availability of acceptable components in sufficient quantities to meet customer delivery schedules; • the timing and level of government funding for product acquisitions and research and development contracts, which may be adversely affected by the current economic and fiscal situation; • price fluctuations in the commodity electronics and memory markets; • the availability of adequate customer facilities to install and operate new Cray systems; • general economic trends, including changes in levels of customer capital spending; • the introduction or announcement of competitive products; • currency fluctuations, international conflicts or economic crises; and • the receipt and timing of necessary export licenses. Because of the numerous factors affecting our revenue and results of operations, we cannot assure our investors that we will have net income on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. We anticipate that our quarterly results will fluctuate significantly, and include losses. Delays in component availability, product development, receipt of orders and product acceptances had a substantial adverse effect on our past results and could continue to have such an effect on our results in 2009 and in future years. 14 Table of Contents Our reliance on third-party suppliers poses significant risks to our operating results, business and prospects. We subcontract the manufacture of a majority of the hardware components for our high-end products, including integrated circuits, printed circuit boards, connectors, cables, power supplies and memory parts, on a sole or limited source basis to third-party suppliers. We use contract manufacturers to assemble certain important components for all of our systems. We also rely on third parties to supply key capabilities, such as file systems and storage subsystems. We use service providers to co-develop key technologies, including integrated circuit design and verification. We use an original equipment manufacturer to deliver complete Cray CX1 systems. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on limited or sole source suppliers. For example: • if a supplier does not provide components that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities on time, then production and sales of our systems could be delayed, which would result in decreased revenue and gross profit and adversely affect cash flow — these risks are accentuated during steep production ramp periods as we introduce new or successor products; • if an interruption of supply of our components occurs because a supplier changes its technology roadmap, decides to no longer provide those components, increases the price of those components significantly or imposes allocations on its customers, it could take us a considerable period of time to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, to redesign our products as necessary and to begin to manufacture the redesigned components. In some cases, such as with key integrated circuits and memory parts, we may not be able to redesign such components or find alternate sources that we could use in any realistic time frame. Defective components may need to be replaced, which may result in increased costs and obsolete inventory; • if a supplier cannot provide a competitive key component, such as processors, our systems may be less competitive than systems using components with greater capabilities; • if a supplier provides us with hardware, software or other intellectual property that contains bugs or other errors or is different from what we expected, our development projects and production systems may be adversely affected through additional design testing and verification efforts, respins of integrated circuits and/or development of replacement components, the production and sales of our systems could be delayed and systems installed at customer sites could require significant field component replacements, resulting in decreased revenue and gross profit and adversely affecting cash flow; • if a supplier providing us with key research and development and design services or core technology components with respect to integrated circuit design, network communication capabilities or software is late, fails to provide us with effective functionality or loses key internal talent, our development programs may be delayed or prove to be not possible to complete; • some of our key component and service suppliers are small companies with limited financial and other resources, and consequently may be more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies; and • if a key supplier is acquired or has a significant business change, production and sales of our systems may be delayed or our development programs may be delayed or may not be possible to complete. To the extent that Intel, IBM or other processor suppliers develop processors with greater capabilities, our systems, including upgrades and successor products, may be at a competitive disadvantage to systems utilizing such other processors. Our Cray XT4 and Cray XT5 systems are based on certain AMD Opterontm processors. Delays in the availability of certain acceptable reliable components, including processors and memory parts, adversely affected our revenue and operating results in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the first nine months of 2008 and could continue to adversely affect results for 2009 and in subsequent periods. If any of our integrated circuit suppliers suffers delays or cancels the development of enhancements to its processors or develops less competitive products, our product revenue, gross profits and operating results would be adversely affected in 2009 and subsequent periods. Our collaboration with Intel announced in April 2008 will not mitigate this risk with respect to processors for several years. Our DARPA HPCS project is now centered on Intel technologies, and any significant changes by Intel in its technology roadmap could adversely affect our ability to complete that program successfully. 15 Table of Contents The achievement of our business plan in 2009 and future periods is highly dependent on increased product revenue and gross profit from our Cray XT5 and successor systems. We expect that a substantial majority of our product revenue in 2009 and subsequent years will come from sales of Cray XT5 systems, including upgrades and successor systems. With procurements for large systems that require that we link together multiple cabinets containing powerful processors and other components into an integrated system, our Cray XT5 systems must scale to unprecedented levels of performance. During our internal testing and the customer acceptance processes, we may discover that we cannot achieve acceptable system stability across these large systems without incurring significant additional delays and expense. Any additional delays in receiving acceptable components or in product development, assembly, final testing and obtaining large system stability would delay delivery, installation and acceptance of Cray XT5 and successor systems. Several factors affect our ability to obtain higher gross profits for our products, such as: • the level of product differentiation in our Cray XT5 and successor systems. We need to compete successfully against HPC systems from large established companies and lower bandwidth cluster systems. Our long-term success may be adversely affected if we are not successful in demonstrating the value of our balanced high bandwidth systems with the capability of solving challenging problems quickly to a market beyond our current core of customers, largely certain agencies of the U.S. and other governments, that require systems with the performance and features we offer; • we sometimes do not meet all of the contract requirements for customer acceptance and ongoing reliability of our systems, which has resulted in contract penalties. Most often these penalties adversely affect the gross profit through the provision of additional equipment and services and/or service credits to satisfy delivery delays and performance shortfalls. Such penalties adversely impacted gross profits in 2007 and 2008, and we will incur additional penalties in 2009. The risk of contract penalties is increased when we bid for new business prior to completing development of new products when we must estimate future system performance; • in March 2008, we placed a last-time buy for a key component for our Cray XT4, Cray XT5 and Cray XMT systems, which had to be placed before we could know all the possible sales prospects for these products. If we estimated our needs too low, we could limit the number of possible sales of these products and reduce potential revenue, or if we estimated too high, we could incur inventory obsolescence charges and reduce our gross profit. Either way, our operating results could be adversely affected; and • in the past, product gross profit has been adversely impacted by lower volumes than planned and higher than anticipated manufacturing variances, including scrap, rework and excess and obsolete inventory. To improve our financial performance, we need greater product differentiation and to limit contract penalties, negative manufacturing variances and other charges that adversely affect product gross profit, and failure to do so will adversely affect our operating results. Failure to overcome the technical challenges of completing the development of our supercomputer systems on our product roadmap would adversely affect our revenue and operating results in subsequent years. In addition to completing the development of the scalable system software and hardware for Cray XT5 and upgrade systems for revenue generation in 2009, we continue to work on our product roadmap, including successor systems to the Cray XT5 system, the Cray XMT system and incorporating Intel technologies into and completing our Cascade program. These development efforts are lengthy and technically challenging processes, and require a significant investment of capital, engineering and other resources. Unanticipated performance and/or development issues may require more engineers, time or testing resources than are currently available. In the past several years, directing engineering resources to solving current issues has adversely affected the timely development of successor products. Given the breadth of our engineering challenges and our limited engineering and technical personnel resources, we periodically review the anticipated contributions and expense of our product programs to determine their long-term viability, and we may substantially modify or terminate one or more development programs. We may not be successful in meeting our development schedules for technical reasons and/or because of insufficient engineering resources, which could cause a lack of confidence in our capabilities among our key customers. To the extent we incur delays in completing the design, development and production of hardware components, delays in 16 Table of Contents development of requisite system software, cancellation of programs due to technical infeasibility or uncover stability issues, our revenue, results of operations and cash flows, and the reputation of such systems in the market, could be adversely affected. Future sales of our products may be adversely affected by any of these factors. If the U.S. government purchases fewer supercomputers, our revenue would be reduced and our operating results would be adversely affected. Historically, sales to the U.S. government and customers primarily serving the U.S. government have represented a significant market for supercomputers, including our products. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, approximately 45%, 64% and 88%, respectively, of our product revenue was derived from such sales. Our 2009 and future plans contemplate significant sales to U.S. government agencies. Sales to government agencies, including cancellations of existing contracts, may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as changes in procurement policies, budgetary considerations including Congressional delays in completing appropriation bills, the current economic uncertainty and its effect on government budgets, domestic crises, and international political developments. If agencies and departments of the United States or other governments were to stop, reduce or delay their use and purchases of supercomputers, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. If government support for development of our supercomputer systems is delayed, reduced or lost, our net research and development expenditures and capital requirements would increase significantly and our ability to conduct research and development would decrease. Agencies of the U.S. government historically have facilitated the development of, and have constituted a market for, new and enhanced very high performance computer systems. U.S. government agencies may delay or decrease funding of our future product development efforts due to product development delays, the current economic uncertainty, a change of priorities, international political developments, overall budgetary considerations or other reasons. In recent years, the U.S. government has delayed enacting significant appropriations bills substantially past the commencement of its October 1 fiscal year. Only three of the 12 annual fiscal year 2009 spending bills, including the Defense Appropriations bill, were enacted before the end of 2008. Most other agencies, including the Department of Energy, were operating under a continuing resolution at fiscal year 2008 levels through March 11, 2009 when the President signed an omnibus funding bill for fiscal 2009. Any delay, decrease or cessation of governmental support could cause an increased need for capital, increase significantly our research and development expenditures and have a material adverse impact on our operating results and our ability to implement our product roadmap. A few government agencies and research laboratories fund a significant portion of our development efforts, including our Cascade project through the DARPA HPCS program and to a lesser extent our Cray XMT project through another government agency; this combined funding significantly reduces our reported level of net research and development expenses. The DARPA program calls for the delivery of prototype systems in 2012, and provides for a contribution by DARPA to us of up to $250 million payable over approximately five years, assuming we meet eleven milestones. We have met four of these milestones through December 31, 2008. Our DARPA program is now centered on Intel technologies, and any significant changes by Intel in its technology roadmap could adversely affect our ability to perform on the program successfully. DARPA’s future financial commitments are subject to subsequent Congressional and federal inter-agency action, and our Cascade development efforts and the level of reported research and development expenses would be adversely impacted if DARPA did not receive expected funding, delayed payment for completed milestones, delayed the timing of milestones or decided to terminate the program before completion. We incurred some delays in payments and program milestones by DARPA in 2007 and 2008, with additional delays possible. If we do not achieve a milestone in the period we had estimated, we may incur research and development expense, without offsetting co-funding, which will increase our net research and development expense during the period. The amount of DARPA funds we can recognize as an offset to our periodic research and development expenses depends on our estimates of the total costs and the time to complete the program; changes in our estimates may decrease the amount of funding recognized in any period, which may increase the amount of net research and development expense recognized in that quarter. By the project’s completion, we must have spent at least $375 million on the project for us to receive all of the DARPA $250 million reimbursements; failure to do so would result in a lower level of DARPA contribution and could result in a termination of the funding contract. The DARPA program will result in increased net research and development expenditures by us for the cost-sharing portion of the program and will adversely affect our cash flow, particularly in the later years of the program. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete successfully in the HPC market, our revenue will decline. The performance of our products may not be competitive with the computer systems offered by our competitors. Many of our competitors are established companies well known in the HPC market, including IBM, NEC, Hewlett-Packard, Fujitsu, Hitachi, SGI, Dell, Bull S.A. and Sun Microsystems. Most of these competitors have substantially greater research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we do. We also compete with systems builders and resellers of systems that are constructed from commodity components using processors manufactured by Intel, AMD and others. These competitors include the previously named companies, with IBM using both third-party processors and its own proprietary processors, as well as smaller firms that benefit from the low research and development costs needed to assemble systems from commercially available commodity products. Such companies, because they can offer high peak performance per dollar, can put pricing pressure on us in certain competitive procurements. In addition, to the extent that Intel, IBM and other processor suppliers develop processors with greater capabilities than the processors we use from AMD, our Cray XT5 and successor systems may be at a competitive disadvantage to systems utilizing such other processors. Our April 2008 collaboration with Intel will mitigate this risk but not for several years. Periodic announcements by our competitors of new HPC systems or plans for future systems and price adjustments may reduce customer demand for our products. Many of our potential customers already own or lease very high performance computer systems. Some of our competitors may offer substantial discounts to potential customers, and we have not always been able to match these sales incentives. We have in the past and may again be required to provide substantial discounts to make strategic sales, which may reduce or eliminate any gross profit on such transactions, or to provide lease financing for our products, which could result in a deferral of our receipt of cash and revenue for these systems. These developments limit our revenue and resources and reduce our ability to be profitable. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerated product obsolescence and continuously evolving industry standards. Our success depends upon our ability to sell our current products, and to develop successor systems and enhancements in a timely manner to meet evolving customer requirements, which may be influenced by competitive offerings. We may not succeed in these efforts. Even if we succeed, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. A breakthrough in technology could make lower bandwidth cluster systems even more attractive to our existing and potential customers. Such a breakthrough would impair our ability to sell our products and would reduce our revenue and operating results. If we do not meet our revenue goals for our new strategic initiatives, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. Our 2009 plans assume material revenue from our three new strategic initiatives: providing Custom Engineering services and selling our new Cray CX1 and Cray XT5m systems. In order to meet our Custom Engineering goals, we must win awards for new contracts in time for significant performance in 2009. Sales of the Cray CX1 system will depend upon building a new global network of independent resellers in Europe, North America and Asia-Pacific and having those resellers successfully sell these new Cray CX1 systems in the competitive workgroup server market. The Cray XT5m system requires successful sales in the lower end of the supercomputer market segment. These efforts require monetary investments ahead of revenue, including adding experienced managers and personnel and initiating new marketing efforts. These additional costs, if not offset by new contributions from these initiatives, will adversely affect our 2009 operating results. In addition, most of the new Custom Engineering projects will be for the U.S. government and likely will require us to enter into agreements that are subject to new or additional Federal Acquisition Regulations, including costing and pricing requirements that we have not previously experienced. These regulations are complex and subject to audit to ensure compliance. We may need to enhance existing financial and costing systems to accommodate these new requirements. Errors made in interpreting and complying with these regulations could result in significant penalties. If we are not successful in these three initiatives, our 2009 revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. If we cannot retain, attract and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled management, technical, marketing, sales and service personnel. The loss of and failure to replace key engineering management and personnel could adversely affect multiple development efforts. Recruitment and retention of senior management and skilled technical, sales and other personnel is very competitive, and we may not be 18 Table of Contents successful in either attracting or retaining such personnel. From time to time, we have lost key personnel to other high technology companies. As part of our strategy to attract and retain key personnel, we may offer equity compensation through stock options and restricted stock grants. Potential employees, however, may not perceive our equity incentives as attractive, and current employees who have significant options with exercise prices significantly above current market values for our common stock may seek other employment. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses. Our stock price is volatile. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including our quarterly operating results (particularly if they are less than our or analysts’ previous estimates), changes in analysts’ estimates or our outlook, our capital raising activities, announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, general economic conditions and conditions in our industry. We will require a significant amount of cash to purchase the Notes and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate expenses and we may have to seek additional financing. Following certain negotiated repurchases of our 3.0% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due in 2024 (“Notes”) in the fourth quarter of 2008, we had approximately $27.7 million in principal amount of Notes outstanding at the end of 2008. We expect that we likely will be required to purchase all of the remaining Notes on December 1, 2009, pursuant to a put option held by holders of these Notes. In addition, holders may also require us to purchase their Notes upon a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes, which includes among other matters, a change of control. Our ability to repurchase the Notes in such events may be limited by law and by the terms of other indebtedness that we may have outstanding at the time of such events. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to repurchase the Notes tendered to us for purchase. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the potential repurchase of the Notes in December 2009, and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate expenses will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash from operations. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations, future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund our other needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to enable us to pay our indebtedness, we may need to pursue one or more alternatives, such as reducing our operating expenses, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or research and development, selling assets, raising additional equity capital and/or debt, and seeking legal protection from our creditors. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to achieve future profitable operations or generate sufficient cash from operations, or that we would obtain additional funding through a financing in the event our financial resources became insufficient, especially in the current economic climate. A financing, even if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms, may contain restrictions on our operations, and if involving equity or debt securities could reduce the percentage ownership of our shareholders, may cause additional dilution to our shareholders and the securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. We may infringe or be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties in the past have asserted, and may in the future assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and such future claims, if proved, could require us to pay substantial damages or to redesign our existing products or pay fees to obtain cross-license agreements. Regardless of the merits, any claim of infringement would require management attention and could be expensive to defend. We incorporate software licensed from third parties into the operating systems for our products and any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products or defects in these products could reduce the demand for our products. The operating system software we develop for our HPC systems contains components that are licensed to us under open source software licenses. Our business could be disrupted if this software, or functional equivalents of this software, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case we would be required to redesign our operating system software to function with alternative third-party software, or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in product shipments. Our Cray CX1, Cray XT5 and successor systems utilize software system variants that incorporate Linux technology. The open source licenses under which we have obtained certain components of our operating system software may not be enforceable. Any ruling by a court that 19 Table of Contents these licenses are not enforceable, or that Linux-based operating systems, or significant portions of them, may not be copied, modified or distributed as provided in those licenses, would adversely affect our ability to sell our systems. In addition, as a result of concerns about the risks of litigation and open source software generally, we may be forced to protect our customers from potential claims of infringement. In any such event, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We also incorporate proprietary incidental software from third parties, such as for file systems, job scheduling and storage subsystems. We have experienced some functional issues in the past with implementing such software with our supercomputer systems. These issues, if repeated, may result in additional expense by us and/or loss of customer confidence. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 at the end of each fiscal year, and any adverse results from such future evaluations could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K as to whether we have any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Depending on their nature and severity, any future material weaknesses could result in our having to restate financial statements, could make it difficult or impossible for us to obtain an audit of our annual financial statements or could result in a qualification of any such audit. In such events, we could experience a number of adverse consequences, including our inability to comply with applicable reporting and listing requirements, a loss of market confidence in our publicly available information, delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market, an inability to complete a financing, loss of other financing sources such as our line of credit, and litigation based on the events themselves or their consequences. U.S. export controls could hinder our ability to make sales to foreign customers and our future prospects. The U.S. government regulates the export of HPC systems such as our products. Occasionally we have experienced delays for up to several months in receiving appropriate approvals necessary for certain sales, which have delayed the shipment of our products. Delay or denial in the granting of any required licenses could make it more difficult to make sales to foreign customers, eliminating an important source of potential revenue. We may not be able to protect our proprietary information and rights adequately. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret protection, nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish, protect and enforce our proprietary information and rights. We have a number of patents and have additional applications pending. There can be no assurance, however, that patents will be issued from the pending applications or that any issued patents will protect adequately those aspects of our technology to which such patents will relate. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that we will succeed in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Additionally, under certain conditions, the U.S. government might obtain non-exclusive rights to certain of our intellectual property. Although we continue to implement protective measures and intend to defend our proprietary rights vigorously, these efforts may not be successful. A substantial number of our shares are eligible for future sale and may depress the market price of our common stock and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding: • 33,506,573 shares of common stock; • 1,284,852 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants; • 3,755,894 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options, of which options to purchase 2,549,394 shares of common stock were then exercisable; and 20 Table of Contents • Notes convertible into an aggregate of 1,436,260 shares of common stock at a current conversion price of approximately $19.31 per share, subject to adjustment, or, under certain circumstances specified in the indenture governing the Notes, a maximum of 1,974,857 shares of common stock. Almost all of our outstanding shares of common stock may be sold without substantial restrictions, with certain exceptions including, as of December 31, 2008, an aggregate of 623,874 shares and restricted stock units held by Board members, executive officers and key managers that may be forfeited and are restricted against transfer until vested. Almost all of the shares of common stock that may be issued on exercise of the warrants and options will be available for sale in the public market when issued, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. The warrants outstanding at December 31, 2008, consisted of warrants to purchase 1,284,852 shares of common stock, with an exercise price of $10.12 per share, expiring on June 21, 2009. The Notes are not now convertible, and only become convertible upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the indenture governing the Notes. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our common stock, including sales of common stock issuable upon the exercise or conversion of warrants, options and Notes, may depress prevailing market prices for the common stock. Even the perception that sales could occur may impact market prices adversely. The existence of outstanding warrants, options and Notes may prove to be a hindrance to our future financings. Further, the holders of warrants, options and Notes may exercise or convert them for shares of common stock at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Such factors could impair our ability to meet our capital needs. We also have authorized 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, although no shares of preferred stock currently are outstanding. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make a proposed acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors more difficult. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. For example, our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for: • removal of a director only in limited circumstances and only upon the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote to elect directors; • the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • no cumulative voting of shares; • the right of shareholders to call a special meeting of the shareholders only upon demand by the holders of not less than 30% of the shares entitled to vote at such a meeting; • the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on an amendment, unless the amendment was approved by a majority of our continuing directors, who are defined as directors who have either served as a director since August 31, 1995, or were nominated to be a director by the continuing directors; • special voting requirements for mergers and other business combinations, unless the proposed transaction was approved by a majority of continuing directors; • special procedures to bring matters before our shareholders at our annual shareholders’ meeting; and • special procedures to nominate members for election to our board of directors. These provisions could delay, defer or prevent a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business transaction between us and a third party that is not approved by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 