ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, including the information regarding forward-looking statements set forth in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, categorized by “Risks Related to Our Business”, “Risks Related to Our Industry” and “Risks Related to Our Common Stock”, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business Actual loss and loss adjustment expenses may exceed our reserve estimates, which would negatively impact our profitability and financial position. In many cases, several years may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and our payment of the loss. To recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we establish reserves as balance sheet liabilities representing estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expenses. Loss reserves are an estimate of what we anticipate the ultimate costs to be and therefore do not represent an exact calculation of liabilities. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments. As part of the reserving process, we review historical data and consider the impact of various factors such as: · actuarial and statistical projections of the cost of settlement and administration of claims reflecting facts and circumstances then known; · historical claims information and loss emergence patterns; · assessments of currently available data; · estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency; · economic factors such as inflation; · judicial theories of liability; · estimates and assumptions regarding social, judicial and legislative trends, and actions such as class action lawsuits and judicial interpretation of coverages or policy exclusions; and · the level of insurance fraud. 14 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future results. It also assumes that adequate historical or other data exists upon which to make these judgments. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. If the actual amount of insured losses is greater than our reserve estimates, our profitability, capital and financial position could suffer. In addition, if our loss reserves are inadequate to cover the actual amount of insured losses, our financial strength rating or the financial strength ratings of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries could be downgraded. An increase in reserves may also require us to write off a portion of our deferred acquisition costs asset, which would also negatively impact our operating results and financial position. In 2012, we experienced material reserve strengthening because of significant adverse loss development primarily in commercial multiple peril, workers’ compensation and commercial auto lines and in the second and third quarters of 2012, we took charges of $28.2 million and $42.9 million, respectively. Additional information relating to our reserves is included within the Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses and Reinsurance Recoverables section of Note 1 ~ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 4 ~ Liability for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as to the Critical Accounting Policies section and the Reserves section of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis. There can be no assurance that we will not in the future experience further significant adverse loss development that could result in further reserve strengthening and additional material charges to earnings. A decrease in our A.M. Best rating could negatively affect our business. Financial ratings are an important factor influencing the competitive position of insurance companies. Insurance companies are subject to financial strength ratings produced by external rating agencies. Higher ratings generally indicate greater financial stability and a stronger ability to pay claims. Ratings are assigned by rating agencies to insurers based upon factors they believe are important to policyholders. Ratings evaluations are not directed to potential purchasers of our common stock and are not recommendations to buy, hold, or sell our securities. Our ability to write business is most influenced by our rating from A.M. Best. A.M. Best ratings are designed to assess an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet continuing obligations to policyholders. Currently, our financial strength rating from A.M. Best is “A−” (Excellent) for our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. On October 19, 2012, following announcement of our third quarter 2012 results, A.M. Best placed under review with negative implications the financial strength rating of A- (Excellent) and issuer credit ratings of “a-” of the subsidiaries of the Company, which operate under an intercompany reinsurance pooling agreement. A.M. Best also has placed under review with negative implications the issuer credit rating of “bbb-” of the Company. A.M. Best announced on March 1, 2013 that they will maintain their “under review” status with negative implications as they continue to evaluate the Company’s corrective actions. As a result, the negative implications remain today. We cannot be sure that further actions, if any, that we take to improve our capital position will be sufficient to maintain our current ratings. In addition, any further adverse loss development or other developments in the future could result in further rating actions. A rating downgrade from A.M. Best could materially adversely affect the business we write and our results of operations. Our failure to maintain our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to our ratings, could cause our current and future independent agents and insureds to choose to transact their business with more highly rated competitors. Such a downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of insurance contracts we write and the loss of substantial business to our competitors that maintain higher ratings, which would cause premiums and earnings to decrease. In addition, a downgrade could negatively impact our ability to raise capital and have a negative impact on our overall liquidity. Financial strength ratings by rating agencies are not ratings of securities or recommendations to buy, hold or sell any security and should not be relied upon as such. We face competitive pressures in our business that could cause our revenues to decline and adversely affect our profitability. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and may enjoy better name recognition, substantially greater financial resources, higher ratings by rating agencies, broader and more diversified product lines and more widespread agency relationships than us. Insurers in our markets generally compete on the basis of price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claims handling, financial stability, customer service and geographic coverage. Although pricing is influenced to some degree by that of our competitors, it is not in our best interests to compete solely on price, and we may from time-to-time experience a loss of market share during period of intense price competition. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could further increase competition in our industry including, but not limited to: · the formation of new insurers and an influx of new capital in the marketplace as existing companies attempt to expand their business as a result of better pricing and/or terms or the offering of similar or better products at or below our prices; · programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas, other alternative market types of coverage, or other non-property insurance; and · changing practices created by the Internet, which has increased competition within the insurance business. New competition resulting from these and other developments could make the property and casualty insurance marketplace more competitive by increasing the supply of insurance capacity. In that event, the current market may soften further, and it may negatively influence our ability to maintain or increase rates. Consequently, our profitability could be adversely impacted by increased competition. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, have been negotiated to limit our exposure to certain types of risks and expanding theories of legal liability. In addition, many of our policies limit the period during which a policyholder may bring a claim under the policy, which period in many cases is shorter than the statutory period under which these claims can be brought by our policyholders. While these exclusions and limitations help us assess and control our loss exposure, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion, or legislation could be enacted that modifies or voids the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Such actions could result in higher than anticipated losses and LAE by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increasing the number or size of claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued the insurance policies that are affected by the changes and litigation relating to the insurance policy interpretation has been resolved. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a policy is issued. 15 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. Our geographic concentration ties our performance to the business, economic, natural perils, man made perils, and regulatory conditions within our most concentrated region. Our revenues and profitability are subject to the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the principal states in which we do business. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in such states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies that are more geographically diversified. In addition, our exposure to severe losses from localized perils, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, wind, ice storms, hail, fires, terrorism, riots and explosions, is increased in those areas where we have written significant numbers of insurance policies. One of our predominate lines of business is workers’ compensation (41.9% of net earned premiums in 2012), which has a high concentration in California. Accordingly, unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in this state could negatively impact our business. California is also exposed to climate and environmental changes, natural perils such as earthquakes, water supplies, and the possibility of pandemics or terrorist acts. Because our business is concentrated in this manner, we may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risk from natural perils that are greater than the risks associated with greater geographic diversification. Refer to Note [5] ~ Reinsurance for further information regarding our reinsurance structure related to workers’ compensation business. Our success depends on our ability to appropriately price the risks we underwrite. Our financial results depend on our ability to underwrite and collect adequate premium rates for a wide variety of risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, loss expenses, and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. To price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data, develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas, monitor and react to changes in trends and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. These activities are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are outside our control, including: • availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data; • uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions; • selection and application of appropriate rating and pricing techniques; • changes in legal standards, claim settlement practices, medical care expenses and restoration costs; • changes in mandated rates or benefits set by the state regulators; and • legislative actions. Consequently, we could underprice risks, which would negatively affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In either event, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to goodwill impairment risk as part of our growth strategy. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We are required to perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we would be required to write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such impairments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, capital and financial position. 16 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. If market conditions cause our reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our Insurance Company Subsidiaries, especially for the excess-of-loss and severity risks. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk we have written (known as ceding) to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk under pro-rata and excess-of-loss contracts. These reinsurance arrangements are intended to diversify our business and reduce our exposure to large losses or from hazards of an unusual nature. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or to obtain other reinsurance in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. Increases in the cost of reinsurance would adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance on favorable terms, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. Our reinsurers may not pay on losses in a timely fashion, or at all, which may cause a substantial loss and increase our costs. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, the ceding of insurance does not discharge us of our primary liability to our policyholder. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not limit our ultimate obligations to policyholders to pay claims. Therefore, we are subject to credit risk with respect to the obligations of our reinsurers. We are also subject to the risk that their reinsurers may dispute their obligations to pay our claims. In addition, our reinsurance agreements are subject to specified limits and we would not have reinsurance coverage to the extent that it exceeds those limits. Should an unlikely event occur that exceeds our reinsurance coverage, then the amounts in excess of our reinsurance coverage could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In order to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and monitor the economic characteristics of the reinsurers on an ongoing basis and, if appropriate, we may require trust agreements to collateralize reinsurers’ financial obligation to us. Nevertheless, if our reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay on a timely basis, our financial results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our investment portfolio is predominantly comprised of fixed income securities. These securities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. An increase in interest rates typically reduces the fair market value of fixed income securities. In addition, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed income securities will be lower. We generally hold our fixed income securities to maturity, so our interest rate exposure does not usually result in realized losses. However, as noted above, rising interest rates could result in a significant reduction of our book value. A low investment yield environment could adversely impact our net earnings, as a result of fixed income securities maturing and being replaced with lower yielding securities which impact investing results. 17 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control including general economic conditions, governmental monetary policy, and political conditions. As discussed above, fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our business. See “Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for further discussion on interest rate risk. Continued difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Recently, concerns over the slow economic recovery, level of U.S. national debt, the U.S. mortgage market, inflation levels, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and global capital markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, reduced business and consumer confidence and continued high unemployment, have negatively impacted the U.S. economy. Although liquidity has improved, the market for fixed income instruments continues to experience some price volatility, credit downgrade events and elevated probabilities of default. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, investor and consumer confidence and inflation levels all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, negative investor sentiment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our insurance products could be adversely affected. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, continuing market turmoil has resulted in, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, regulatory and governmental actions. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even in the absence of a market downturn, our insurance products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to equity, fixed income, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic and political conditions. These fluctuations and conditions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our investment portfolio is subject to market and credit risks, which could affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. Our investment portfolio is subject to overall market risk and credit risk of the individual issuers of securities. The value of investments in marketable securities is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the creditworthiness of the issuer. Although we try to manage this risk by diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing credit quality, our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general downturn in the economy. A severe economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our results from operations and our financial condition. We could be forced to sell investments to meet our liquidity requirements. We invest the premiums we receive from customers until they are needed to pay policyholder claims or until they are recognized as profits. Consequently, we seek to match the duration of our investment portfolio with the duration of our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves to ensure strong liquidity and avoid having to liquidate securities to fund claims. As an example, we ladder the maturities of our investment portfolio to ensure we have adequate liquidity to fund anticipated liabilities that are coming due. Risks such as inadequate loss and loss adjustment reserves or unfavorable trends in litigation could potentially result in the need to sell investments to fund these liabilities. Such sales could result in significant realized losses depending on the conditions of the general market, interest rates and credit issues with individual securities. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 18 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. The successful implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and industry standards and introduce new products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to introduce new products, or that any new products will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products and services may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers and respond to technological advances on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving customer requirements, and, as a result, our business could suffer. We are unable to predict the impact on us of the federal financial regulatory reform. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) enacted in July, 2010, expands the federal presence in insurance oversight. The Dodd-Frank Act's requirements include streamlining the state-based regulation of reinsurance and nonadmitted insurance (property or casualty insurance placed from insurers that are eligible to accept insurance, but are not licensed to write insurance in a particular state). The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a new Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury with regulatory authority over all lines of insurance except health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. The Federal Insurance Office has the power to, among other things, monitor aspects of the insurance industry, identify issues in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the overall financial system, coordinate federal policy on international insurance matters and preempt state insurance measures under certain circumstances. The Dodd-Frank Act provides a framework for further regulation and governance initiatives. These regulations and initiatives cover many aspects of public company governance including, but not limited to, new and enhanced executive compensation disclosures, nonbinding stockholder votes on executive compensation, new independence standards for compensation committee membership, and incentive compensation clawback policies. Because the SEC has not yet completed its required rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, we are unable to predict with certainty the overall impact these new regulations and initiatives will have on us. However, the cost of compliance with new regulations and initiatives could be significant, and adversely impact our results of operations, equity, business, and insurer financial strength and debt ratings. Our ability to meet ongoing cash requirements and pay dividends may be limited by our holding company structure and regulatory constraints restricting dividends or other distributions by our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. We are a holding company that transacts the majority of our business through our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our obligations on our outstanding debt, and to pay our expenses and shareholder dividends, depends upon the dividend paying capacity of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. We will be limited by the earnings of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries, and the distribution or other payment of such earnings to it in the form of dividends, loans, advances or the reimbursement of expenses. Payments of dividends to us by our Insurance Company Subsidiaries are subject to various business considerations and restricted by state insurance laws, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to revised restrictions in the future. As of December 31, 2012, our Insurance Company Subsidiaries were able to make distributions to us up to $41.2 million without regulatory approval. The ability to pay ordinary and extraordinary dividends must be reviewed in relation to the impact on key financial measurement ratios, including Risk Based Capital (RBC) ratios and A.M. Best’s Capital Adequacy Ratio (“BCAR”), which in turn could affect our A.M. Best rating. As a result, at times, we may not be able to receive dividends from our Insurance Company Subsidiaries in amounts necessary to meet our debt obligations, to pay shareholder dividends on our capital stock or to pay corporate expenses. Therefore, the inability of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 19 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. Failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. Our Insurance Company Subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of their respective states of domicile and each state in which they issue policies. Any failure by one of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries to meet minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by applicable state law will subject it to corrective action, which may include requiring adoption of a comprehensive financial plan, revocation of its license to sell insurance products or placing the subsidiary under state regulatory control. A decline in the risk based capital ratios of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries could limit their ability to pay dividends to us. Any new minimum capital and surplus requirements adopted in the future may require us to increase the capital and surplus of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries, which we may not be able to do. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that our present capital is insufficient to meet future operating requirements and/or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings. If we had to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available or may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the shares currently outstanding. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties, which may prevent us from achieving the expected benefits. At times, we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the expected benefits exceed the risks. Achieving such benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the combined businesses are integrated in an efficient and effective manner; assumption of unknown material liabilities, including deficient provisions for unpaid claims; diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; potential loss of policyholders or key employees of acquired companies; and general competitive factors in the marketplace. We believe we have a robust due diligence process; however, integrating an acquired company or business can be a complex and costly endeavor. Integration may result in the loss of key employees, disruption to the existing business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any financial commitments required by regulatory authorities or rating agencies in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. We may be unable to integrate or profitably operate any business, operations, personnel, services or products that we may acquire in the future, which could materially impact our projected benefits from the transaction, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our reliance upon producers subjects us to their credit risk. With respect to agency-billed premiums and premiums generated by brokers, producers collect premiums from the policyholders and forward them to us. We rely, and will continue to rely, heavily on these producers to attract new business. Independent producers generally have the ability to bind insurance policies and collect premiums on our behalf, actions over which we have a limited ability to exercise preventative control. In the event that an independent agent exceeds its authority by binding us to a risk that does not comply with our underwriting guidelines, we may be at risk for that policy until we effect a cancellation. Any improper use of such authority may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In certain jurisdictions, when the insured pays premium for these policies to producers for payment, the premium might be considered to have been paid under applicable insurance laws and the insured will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premium from the producer. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with producers. Although producers’ failures to remit premiums to us have not caused a material adverse impact on us to date, there may be instances where producers collect premium but do not remit it to us and we may be required under applicable law to provide the coverage set forth in the policy despite the actual lack of collection of the premium by us. Because the possibility of these events is dependent in large part upon the financial condition, cash flows, and internal operations of our producers, we may not be able to quantify any potential exposure presented by the risk. If we are unable to collect premium from our producers in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 20 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. One of our core selected producers accounts for a large portion of our premium volume, loss of business provided by this entity could adversely affect us. Our largest producer in 2012 was Midwest General Insurance Agency, LLC (“Midwest General”), which in combination with its affiliates, accounted for 13.1% of our gross written premium. No other producer was responsible for more than 10% of our gross written premium. We do not have an exclusive relationship with Midwest General, and there can be no assurance that this relationship will continue in the future. If Midwest General reduces its marketing of our products or moves some or all of its business to another carrier, then our business, investment financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our performance is dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to retain and motivate our senior management and key management personnel and their efforts. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have existing employment or severance agreements with Robert S. Cubbin, Christopher J. Timm, Karen M. Spaun, Michael G. Costello, and other senior executives. We maintain a “key person” life insurance policy on Robert S. Cubbin, our President and CEO. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could cause our ability to implement our business strategies to be delayed or hindered. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for these employees is strong and we may not be able to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate our agents and other producers. Our failure to attract and retain the necessary personnel and producers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems to conduct our business. Our business is dependent upon the uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunication systems. We rely upon our systems, as well as the systems of our vendors, to underwrite and process our business; make claim payments; provide customer service; provide policy administration services, such as endorsements, cancellations and premium collections; comply with insurance regulatory requirements; and perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to timely and efficiently process our business and protect our information and telecommunications systems from physical loss, telecommunications failure or other similar catastrophic events, as well as from security breaches. While we have implemented business contingency plans and other reasonable and appropriate internal controls to protect our systems from interruption, loss or security breaches, a sustained business interruption or system failure could adversely impact our ability to process our business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Likewise, a security breach of our computer systems could also interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation in the event confidential customer information is disclosed to third–parties. We could also be subject to fines and penalties from a security breach. The cost to remedy a severe security breach could also be substantial. These circumstances could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation. Managing technology initiatives and obtaining the efficiencies anticipated with technology implementation may present significant challenges. While technological enhancements and initiatives can streamline several business processes and ultimately reduce the costs of operations, these initiatives can present short-term costs and implementation risks. Projections of associated costs, implementation timelines, and the benefits of those results may be inaccurate and such inaccuracies could increase over time. In addition, there are risks associated with not achieving the anticipated efficiencies from technology implementation that could impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our internal controls are not fail-safe. We continually enhance our operating procedures and internal controls to effectively support our business and comply with our regulatory and financial reporting requirements. As a result of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control objectives have been or will be met, and that every instance of error or fraud has been or will be detected. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by individual acts or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Internal controls may also become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Further, the design of a control system must reflect resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. As a result of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatement due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Accordingly, our internal controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control objectives are met. 21 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. Risks Related to Our Industry and Our Regulatory and Litigation Environment The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition, excess capacity and lower levels of profitability (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates, shortages of underwriting capacity, and higher levels of profitability (known as a hard market). Although an individual insurance company’s financial performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Specific factors that can drive the industry’s profitability include: · rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; · volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; · changes in loss reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurer’s liability develop; · fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses; and · increases in medical costs beyond historic or expected annual inflationary levels. Because the cyclicality of our industry is due in large part to the actions of competitors and general economic conditions, we cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. We have been in a prolonged soft market and cannot necessarily predict how long it will take to harden. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and could cause us to suffer material financial losses. The majority of our property business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events, such as hurricanes, winter weather, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms and fires, and other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Generally these losses result in an increase in the number of claims incurred as well as the amount of compensation sought by claimants. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Along with other insurers in the industry, we use models in assessing our exposure to catastrophe losses that assume various conditions and probability scenarios. However, these models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or accurately measure losses currently incurred. Catastrophe models use historical information about various catastrophes and detailed information about our in-force business. While we use this information in connection with our pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to their usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. Such limitations lead to questionable predictive capability and post-event measurements that have not been well understood or proven to be sufficiently reliable. In addition, the models are not necessarily reflective of our or state-specific policy language, demand surge for labor and materials or loss settlement expenses, all of which are subject to wide variation by catastrophe. Litigation may have an adverse effect on our business 22 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. We are subject at times to various claims, lawsuits and proceedings relating principally to alleged errors or omissions in the placement of insurance, claims administration, consulting services and other business transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. Where appropriate, we vigorously defend such claims, lawsuits and proceedings. Some of these claims, lawsuits and proceedings seek damages, including consequential, exemplary, or punitive damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, be significant. Most of the claims, lawsuits and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business are covered by the policy at issue, errors and omissions insurance or other appropriate insurance. In terms of any retentions or deductibles associated with such insurance, we have established accruals for such retentions or deductibles, when necessary, based upon current available information. With the assistance of outside counsel, we adjust such provisions according to new developments or changes in the strategy in dealing with such matters. On the basis of current information, we do not expect the outcome of the claims, lawsuits and proceedings to which we are subject to, either individually, or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, it is possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of any such matters. Because we are heavily regulated by the states in which we operate, we may be limited in the way we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the states in which we operate. The supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial condition. The primary purpose of the supervision and regulation is to maintain compliance with insurance regulations and to protect policyholders. The extent of regulation varies, but generally is governed by state statutes. These statutes delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to state insurance departments. This system of regulation covers, among other things: · standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; · restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; · restrictions on the types of terms that we can include in the insurance policies we offer; · restrictions on our ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; · required methods of accounting; · required reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; · permissible underwriting and claims settlement practices; · assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain insurance policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; · approval of policy forms and rates; and · restrictions on transactions between our Insurance Company Subsidiaries and their affiliates. The regulations of the state insurance departments may affect the cost or demand for our products and may impede us from obtaining rate increases or taking other actions we might wish to take to increase our profitability. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals, or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could stop or temporarily suspend us from conducting some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize us. In addition, state regulators and the NAIC regularly examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretations thereof could adversely impact our business. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation, and/or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry. Most states assess our Insurance Company Subsidiaries to provide funds for failing insurance companies and those assessments could be material. Our Insurance Company Subsidiaries are subject to assessments in most states where we are licensed for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These assessments, which are levied by guaranty associations within the state, up to prescribed limits, are imposed on all member insurers in the applicable state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insures in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer was engaged. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us by the states in which we are licensed to write insurance may increase as we increase our premiums written. Maximum contributions required by law in any one year vary by state, and have historically been less than one percent of annual premiums written. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in certain states, insurance companies are required to participate in mandatory reinsurance funds. We cannot predict with certainty the amount of future assessments or level of participation in mandatory reinsurance funds. Significant assessments and the effect of mandatory reinsurance arrangements, or changes therein, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could be significant and could cause a loss in the amount invested in our shares of common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: ● Variations in our actual or anticipated operating results or changes in the expectations of financial market analysts with respect to our results; ● Investor perceptions of the insurance industry in general and the Company in particular; ● Market conditions in the insurance industry and any significant volatility in the market; ● Major catastrophic events; and ● Departure of key personnel. Provisions of the Michigan Business Corporation Act, our articles of incorporation and other corporate governing documents and the insurance laws may discourage takeover attempts. The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains “anti-takeover” provisions. Chapter 7A (the “Fair Price Act”) of the Business Corporation Act applies to us and may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in their best interest, including those attempts that might result in shareholders receiving a premium over market price for their shares. In general, subject to certain exceptions, the Fair Price Act prohibits a Michigan corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested shareholder” for a period of five years following the date that such shareholder became an interested shareholder, unless (i) prior to such date, the board of directors approved the business combination or (ii) on or subsequent to such date, the business combination is approved by at least 90% of the votes of each class of the corporation’s stock entitled to vote and by at least two-thirds of such voting stock not held by the interested shareholder or such shareholder’s affiliates. The Fair Price Act defines a “business combination” to include certain mergers, consolidations, dispositions of assets or shares and recapitalizations. An “interested shareholder” is defined by the Fair Price Act to include a beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation. Our articles of incorporation allow our Board of Directors to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock with voting rights, preferences and other privileges as the Board of Directors may determine. The possible issuance of preferred shares could adversely affect the holders of our common stock and could prevent, delay, or defer a change of control. We are also subject to the laws of Michigan, Ohio, Texas, California, Washington D.C., Missouri, and other states, which govern insurance holding companies. Under these laws, a person generally must obtain the applicable Insurance Department’s approval to acquire, directly or indirectly, five to ten percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. An Insurance Department’s determination of whether to approve an acquisition would be based on a variety of factors, including an evaluation of the acquirer’s financial stability, the competence of its management, and whether competition in that state would be reduced. These laws may prevent, delay or defer a change of control of us or our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. Although we have paid cash dividends in the past, we may not pay cash dividends in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends by our Insurance Company Subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. There is no requirement that we must, and we cannot assure you that we will, declare and pay any dividends in the future. Our Board of Directors may determine to retain such capital for general corporate or other purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 24 MEADOWBROOK INSURANCE GROUP, INC. 