Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors should be considered in evaluating our business, operations and prospects; they may affect our future results and financial condition and they may affect an investment in our securities. Factors specific to our 3.0% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2024 (the “Notes”) and our common stock are set forth under the subheading “Risk Factors Pertaining to Our Notes and Our Common Stock” below. Risk Factors Pertaining to Our Business and Operations Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to the factors listed below, which make planning revenue and earnings for any specific period very difficult. We experienced net losses in each full year of our development-stage operations prior to 2002. For 2002 we had net income of $5.4 million and for 2003 we had net income of $63.2 million (including an income tax benefit of $42.2 million, much of which came from the reversal of a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets). For 2004 we had a net loss of $207.4 million (including an expense for in-process research and development of $43.4 million and an income tax expense of $59.1 million, of which $58.9 million related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets) and for 2005 we had a net loss of $64.3 million. Whether we will achieve anticipated revenue and net income on a quarterly and annual basis in 2006 and subsequent years depends on a number of factors, including: • successfully selling the Cray XT3, Cray X1E and Cray XD1 systems, including upgrades and successor systems, new products, and the timing and funding of government purchases, especially in the United States; • the level of product margin contribution in any given period; • maintaining our other product development projects on schedule and within budgetary limitations; • the level of revenue recognized in any given period, particularly for the high average sales prices and limited number of sales of our larger systems in any quarter, including the timing of product acceptances by customers and contractual provisions affecting revenue recognition; • revenue delays or losses due to customers postponing purchases to await future upgraded or new systems, delays in delivery of upgraded or new systems and longer than expected customer acceptance cycles; • our expense levels, including research and development net of government funding, which may be affected by the timing of such funding; 13 Table of Contents • the terms and conditions of sale or lease for our products; • whether we conclude that all or some part of our recorded goodwill has been impaired, which may be due to changes in our business plans and strategy and/or a decrease in our fair value (i.e., the market value of our outstanding shares of common stock); and • the impact of expensing our stock-based compensation under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, (“SFAS No. 123(R)”). The timing of orders and shipments and quarterly and annual results also could be affected by additional events outside our control, such as: • the timely availability of acceptable components in sufficient quantities to meet customer delivery schedules; • timing of government funding for products and research and development contracts; • changes in levels of customer capital spending; • the introduction or announcement of competitive products; • the receipt and timing of necessary export licenses; and • currency fluctuations, international conflicts or economic crises. Because of the numerous factors affecting our revenue and results of operations, we cannot assure our investors that we will have net income on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. We currently anticipate that our quarterly results in 2006 will vary significantly, with a major portion of our revenue to be recognized in the second half of the year. Delays in product development, receipt of orders or product acceptances could have a substantial adverse effect on our 2006 results. Failure to sell Cray XT3 and upgrade systems in planned quantities and margins would adversely affect 2006 revenue and earnings. We expect that a majority of our product revenue in 2006 will come from a limited number of sales of the Cray XT3 system and an upgraded system to governmental purchasers in the United States and overseas. We have not yet signed contracts for a majority of these system sales, and if we fail to receive such contracts, our 2006 performance would be adversely affected. We do not expect to complete development of the upgrade system until the fourth quarter of 2006, and thus completion of delivery, installation and customer acceptance in the fourth quarter is at significant risk. The availability of an upgrade system may also adversely affect sales of Cray XT3 systems in 2006 if customers decide to wait until 2007 to receive the upgrade system. We also face significant margin pressure for our Cray XT3 system and other commodity processor-based products from competitors. Improved future performance is highly dependent on increased product revenue and margins. In 2005, we had lower revenue and margins than anticipated for our principal products. Product revenue was adversely affected by delays in product shipments due to development delays, including system software development for large systems, and at times by the availability of key components from third party vendors. Product margins have been adversely impacted by competitive pressures, lower volumes than planned and higher than anticipated manufacturing variances, including scrap, rework and excess and obsolete inventory. We sometimes do not meet all of the contract requirements for customer acceptance of our systems, which has resulted in contract penalties. Most often these penalties adversely affect the gross margin on a sale through the provision of additional equipment and services to satisfy delivery delays and performance shortfalls, although there is the risk of contract defaults and product return. The risk of contract penalties is increased when we bid for new business prior to completion of product development. To improve our financial performance, we need to receive higher margin orders, particularly for the Cray XT3 and its upgrade system; deliver shipments of new products on time, particularly the upgrade to the Cray XT3 system in the fourth quarter of 2006; limit negative manufacturing variances, contract penalties and other charges that adversely affect product margin; and complete the Red Storm project without additional losses. 14 Table of Contents Our inability to overcome the technical challenges of completing the development of our supercomputer systems would adversely affect our revenue and earnings in 2006 and beyond. Our success in 2006 and in the following years depends on completing development of hardware and software enhancements to the Cray XT3 systems, including the timely and successful introduction of dual-core processor technology and successfully completing, shipping and recognizing revenue for an upgrade to the Cray XT3 system by the fourth quarter of 2006. We also must successfully and timely complete several key projects on our product roadmap, including the products based on our BlackWidow and Eldorado projects for 2007 revenue and successor systems to the Cray XT3. These hardware and software development efforts are lengthy and technically challenging processes, and require a significant investment of capital, engineering and other resources. Our engineering and technical personnel resources are limited, have suffered from increased turnover, and our employee restructurings have strained our engineering resources further. Unanticipated performance and/or development issues may require more engineers or time or testing resources than are available currently. Given the breadth of our engineering challenges and our limited resources, we periodically review the anticipated contributions and expense of our product programs to determine their long-term viability. We may not be successful in meeting our development schedules for technical reasons and/or because of insufficient hardware and software engineering resources. Delays in completing the design of the hardware components, including several custom integrated circuits, and developing requisite system software, operating system software stability, needed software features and integrating the full systems, would make it difficult for us to develop and market these systems timely and successfully and could cause a lack of confidence in our capabilities among our key customers. We have suffered significantly from product delays in the past, especially in 2004 and 2005, that adversely affected our financial performance, and may incur similar delays in the future, which would adversely affect our revenue and earnings. If we lose government support for development of our supercomputer systems, our research and development expenses and capital requirements would increase and our ability to conduct research and development would decrease. A few government agencies and research laboratories fund a significant portion of our development efforts, including our vector and multithreaded products, which significantly reduces our reported level of net research and development expenses. To date, our 2006 development contracts for our BlackWidow and Eldorado projects are not funded fully or have not yet been completed. Agencies of the U.S. government historically have facilitated the development of, and have constituted a market for, new and enhanced very high performance computer systems. U.S. government agencies may delay or decrease funding of our future product development efforts due to a change of priorities, international political developments, overall budgetary considerations or for any other reason. Any delay in completing the currently planned contracts for these projects or a delay or decrease in other governmental support would cause an increased need for capital, increase significantly our research and development expenditures and adversely impact our profitability and our ability to implement our product roadmap. We will be adversely affected if we are not awarded a contract for phase 3 of the DARPA HPCS Program. Proposals for phase 3 of the DARPA HPCS program are due in late April 2006 and awards for phase 3 are to be announced in mid-2006. In addition to ourselves, we expect that IBM and Sun Microsystems, the other participants in phase 2, will submit proposals. Phase 3 awards are for the delivery of prototype systems by late 2010 and are expected to be in the range of $200 million to $250 million payable over about five years, with awardees to contribute a significant portion of the cost. We anticipate that there will be one or two awardees. Our 2006 plan is based on a successful phase 3 proposal. Winning a phase 3 award likely will result in increased research and development expenditures by us for the cost-sharing portion of the program. If we do not receive a phase 3 award, we would look for alternative funding for all or some portion of our proposal, which may not be available. We would need to revise our long-term development plans and possibly redeploy and/or reduce our engineering staff. We also may experience decreased confidence in us and our long-term viability from our customers, particularly U.S. governmental agencies. If we do not receive a phase 3 award, our expenses in 2006 likely will increase and our longer-term revenue and earnings probably would be adversely affected. We face last-time buy decisions affecting all of our products, which may adversely affect our revenue and earnings. We face a last-time-buy deadline for a key component for our Cray XT3 and successor 15 Table of Contents systems and our Eldorado project. We expect to no longer produce the Cray XD1 past 2006, and must plan our inventory purchases accordingly. We may have to place such last-time-buy orders and inventory purchases before we know all possible sales prospects. In determining last-time-by orders and inventory purchases, we may either estimate low, in which case we limit the number of possible sales of products and reduce potential revenue, or we may estimate too high, and incur inventory obsolescence write-downs. Either way, our earnings would be adversely affected. To be successful we need to establish the value of our high-bandwidth sustained performance systems, increase differentiation of our massively parallel commodity processor-products and reduce doubts about our long-term viability. We are a comparatively small company dedicated solely to the supercomputing market. We have concentrated our product roadmap on building balanced systems combining highly capable processors with very high speed interconnect and communications capabilities throughout the entire computing system. We achieve performance differentiation from our competitors through our custom processors in our vector-based and multithreading products, although the markets for those products may be limited in size. We need to establish greater performance differentiation from our competitors in our Cray XT3 and successor massively parallel products in order to command higher margins. The market for such products is much larger but currently replete with low-bandwidth systems and off-the-shelf commodity-based cluster systems offered by larger competitors with significant resources and smaller companies with minimal research and development expenditures. Many customers are able to meet their computing needs through the use of such systems, and are willing to accept lower capability and less accurate modeling in return for lower acquisition costs. Vendors of such systems, because they can offer high peak performance per dollar, often put pricing pressure on us in competitive procurements. In addition, even when we have the best technical solution, our financial losses in 2004 and 2005 may raise questions with our customers and potential customers about our long-term viability. Our long-term success may be adversely affected if we are not successful in establishing the value of our balanced high-bandwidth systems with the capability of solving challenging problems quickly to a market beyond our core of customers, largely certain agencies of the U.S. and other governments, that require systems with the performance and features we offer. Our reliance on third-party suppliers poses significant risks to our business and prospects. We subcontract the manufacture of substantially all of our hardware components for all of our products, including integrated circuits, printed circuit boards, connectors, cables, power supplies, and certain memory parts, on a sole or limited source basis to third-party suppliers. We use contract manufacturers to assemble our components for all of our systems. We also rely on third parties to supply key software capabilities, such as file systems and storage subsystems. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on these and other limited or sole source suppliers. For example: • if a supplier did not provide components that met our specifications in sufficient quantities, then production and sale of our systems would be delayed; • if a reduction or an interruption of supply of our components occurred, either because of a significant problem with a supplier not providing parts on time or providing parts that later prove to be defective or a single-source supplier deciding to no longer provide those components to us, it could take us a considerable period of time to identify and qualify alternative suppliers to redesign our products as necessary and to begin manufacture of the redesigned components or we may not be able to so redesign such components; see also “We face last-time buy decisions affecting all of our products, which may adversely affect our earnings and prospects,” above; • if we were unable to locate a supplier for a key component, we would be unable to complete and deliver our products; • one or more suppliers could make strategic changes in their product offerings, which might delay, suspend manufacture or increase the cost of our components or systems; and • some of our key suppliers are small companies with limited financial and other resources, and consequently may be more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies. 16 Table of Contents Our products must meet demanding specifications, such as integrated circuits that perform reliably at high frequencies in order to meet acceptance criteria. From time to time in 2004 and 2005 we incurred delays in the receipt of key components for the Cray X1E, Red Storm, Cray XT3 and the Cray XD1 systems, which delayed product shipments and acceptances. The delays in product shipments and acceptances adversely affected 2004 and 2005 revenue and margins, and may continue to so. We have also received parts that later proved defective, particularly for the Cray XD1 system, which adversely affects our margins and customer confidence. We have used IBM as a key foundry supplier of our integrated circuits for many years. In 2004 IBM informed us that it would no longer act as our foundry supplier on a long-term basis, although it will continue production of components for our current products for a limited time. We have negotiated a termination of the relationship with IBM and completed a general contract with TI to act as our foundry for certain key integrated circuits for our BlackWidow project in 2006 and successor products in subsequent years. We need to develop a mutually beneficial relationship with TI on a long-term basis, including negotiating and completing agreements for the design and delivery of specific components. If we do not conclude such agreements or if TI is not able to meet our schedules successfully, we will be adversely affected. Our Cray XT3 and Cray XD1 systems utilize AMD Opteron processors, as do our planned successor products. Our Eldorado project is based on processors from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. If any of these suppliers suffers delays or cancels the development of enhancements to its processors, our product revenue would be adversely affected. Changing our product designs to utilize another supplier’s integrated circuits would be a costly and time-consuming process. Lower than anticipated sales of new supercomputers and the termination of maintenance contracts on older and/or decommissioned systems would further reduce our service revenue and margins from maintenance service contracts. High performance computer systems are typically sold with maintenance service contracts. These contracts generally are for annual periods, although some are for multi-year periods, and provide a predictable revenue base. Our revenue from maintenance service contracts has declined from approximately $95 million in 2000 to approximately $42 million in 2005. While we expect our maintenance service revenue to stabilize over the next year, we may have periodic revenue and margin declines as our older, higher margin service contracts are ended and newer, lower margin contracts are established, based on the timing of system withdrawals from service. Adding service personnel to new locations when we win contracts where we have previously had no presence and servicing installed products when we discover defective components in the field create additional pressure on service margins. We face increased liquidity risk if we do not receive cash flow from operating activities as planned. During 2005, we incurred a net loss of $64.3 million and used $36.7 million of cash in operating activities. Although we generated cash from operations in the second half of 2005 of approximately $40.5 million, we used significant working capital in the first half of 2005 to fund our operating loss, increased inventory purchases, increased accounts receivable and additional equipment purchases associated with the introduction of three new products. Our plans project that our current cash resources, including our credit facility, and cash to be generated from operating activities should be adequate for at least the next 12 months, although we may face short-term dislocations between receipts and expenditures. Our plans assume customer acceptances and subsequent collections from several large customers, as well as cash receipts on new bookings. Should acceptances and payments be delayed significantly, we could face a significant liquidity challenge which may require us to pursue additional initiatives to reduce costs further, including reductions in inventory purchases and commitments and/or seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to achieve future profitable operations or generate sufficient cash from operations, or that we would be able to obtain additional funding through a financing in the event our financial resources became insufficient. Financing, even if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms, may contain restrictions on our operations, and if involving equity or debt securities could reduce the percentage ownership of our shareholders, may cause additional dilution to our shareholders and the securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to the Notes and our common stock. 17 Table of Contents We may not meet the covenants imposed by our current credit agreement. We are subject to various financial and other covenants related to our line of credit with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. If we were to fail to satisfy any of the covenants, we could be subject to fees and/or the possible termination of the credit facility. We failed to meet a covenant with regard to minimum EBITDA for 2005, which was waived by Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. Termination of our credit facility would have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. We were not successful in completing the Red Storm project on time and on budget, which adversely affected our 2004 and 2005 earnings and could adversely affect our future earnings and financial condition. Falling behind schedule and incurring cost overruns on the Red Storm project adversely affected our cash flow and earnings in 2004 and 2005, and we recognized an estimated loss of $7.6 million in 2004 and recognized additional losses of $7.7 million in 2005 on that project. It is possible that we may have additional losses on the Red Storm contract in 2006. Although we have made considerable progress on the Red Storm project, achieved a series of critical milestones, and clarified the path to system acceptance, failure to complete the Red Storm system or to receive full payment for the Red Storm system would result in the recognition of additional losses, and if severe enough, could result in a contract default or termination. Such delays, default declaration and/or termination could materially adversely affect other transactions with other U.S. government agencies, our 2006 results and our financial condition. If the U.S. government purchases fewer supercomputers, our revenue would be reduced and our earnings would be adversely affected. Historically, sales to the U.S. government and customers primarily serving the U.S. government have represented a significant market for supercomputers, including our products. From January 1, 2001, through December 31, 2002, approximately $101 million of our product revenue was derived from sales to various agencies of the U.S. government; in 2003 and 2004, approximately $145 million and $78 million, respectively, of our product revenue was derived from such sales. In 2005, approximately $84 million of our product revenue was derived from U.S. government sales. Our 2006 plan is based on significant sales to U.S. government agencies, particularly of Cray XT3 and successor systems. Sales to government agencies may be affected by factors outside our control, such as changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, domestic crisis, and international political developments. If agencies and departments of the United States or other governments were to stop, reduce or delay their use and purchases of supercomputers, our revenue and earnings would be reduced, which could lead to reduced profitability or losses. If we are unable to compete successfully in the high performance computer market, our revenue will decline. The performance of our products may not be competitive with the computer systems offered by our competitors. Many of our competitors are established companies well known in the high performance computing market, including IBM, NEC, Hewlett-Packard, SGI, Dell, Bull S.A. and Sun Microsystems. Most of these competitors have substantially greater research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we do. We also compete with systems builders and resellers of systems that are constructed from commodity components using microprocessors manufactured by Intel, AMD, IBM and others. These competitors include the previously named companies as well as smaller firms, such as Linux Networx and Verari Systems, that benefit from the low research and development costs needed to assemble systems from commercially available commodity products. These companies have capitalized on developments in parallel processing and increased computer performance in commodity-based networking and cluster systems. While these companies’ products are more limited in applicability and scalability, they have achieved growing market acceptance. They offer significant performance and price/peak performance on smaller problems and on larger problems lacking complexity, which is a part of the growing capacity computing marketplace (as opposed to the capability marketplace that is our focus). Such companies, because they can offer high peak performance per dollar, often put pricing pressure on us in competitive procurements. Internationally we compete primarily with IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, SGI, and NEC. While the first four companies offer large systems based on commodity processors, NEC also offers vector-based systems with a large suite of ported application programs. We have non-exclusive rights to market NEC vector processing supercomputers throughout the world. As in the United States, commodity high perform- 18 Table of Contents ance computing suppliers like Dell, Linux Networx and Bull offer systems with significantly better price/peak performance. Periodic announcements by our competitors of new high performance computer systems (or plans for future systems) and price adjustments may reduce customer demand for our products. Many of our potential customers already own or lease very high performance computer systems. Some of our competitors offer trade-in allowances or substantial discounts to potential customers, and engage in other aggressive pricing tactics, and we have not always been able to match these sales incentives. We have in the past and may again be required to provide substantial discounts to make strategic sales, which may reduce or eliminate any positive margin on such transactions, or to provide lease financing for our products, which would result in a deferral of our receipt of cash for these systems. These developments limit our revenue and resources and reduce our ability to be profitable. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerated product obsolescence and continuously evolving industry standards. Our success depends upon our ability to sell our current products, and to develop successor systems and enhancements in a timely manner to meet evolving customer requirements. We may not succeed in these efforts. Even if we succeed, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. A breakthrough in architecture or software technology could make low-bandwidth and cluster systems even more attractive to our existing and potential customers. Such a breakthrough would impair our ability to sell our products and reduce our revenue and earnings. If we cannot retain, attract and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled management, technical, marketing, sales and service personnel. The loss of and failure to replace key engineering management and personnel could adversely affect multiple development efforts. Turnover of our research and development personnel was higher than normal in 2005 due to programmatic decisions and aggressive hiring pressure from competitors and other high technology companies, resulting in increased risks to our ability to complete product development projects on schedule. We face staffing shortages and high workloads in many key areas, including sales leadership, engineering, field services, marketing, finance and legal. We need to develop and implement succession plans for key personnel, some of whom are approaching retirement age. Recruitment for senior management and highly skilled technical, sales and other personnel is very competitive, and we may not be successful in either attracting or retaining such personnel. As part of our strategy to attract and retain personnel, we offer equity compensation through stock options and restricted stock grants. However, given the fluctuations of the market price of our common stock and concerns about our long-term viability, potential employees may not perceive our equity incentives as attractive, and current employees whose options have exercise prices significantly above current market values for our common stock may choose not to remain employed by us. We expect to seek shareholder approval for a new equity incentive plan that would provide additional authorized options and restricted stock to provide appropriate hiring and retention incentives; if our shareholders do not approve the new plan, we may be limited in our ability to provide such incentives. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses. New European environmental rules may adversely affect our operations. In 2006 members of the European Union (EU) and certain other European countries will implement the Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive, which prohibits or limits the use in electrical and electronic equipment of the following substances: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent, chromium, polybrominated biphenyls, and polybrominated diphenyl ethers. After July 1, 2006, a U.S. company shipping products to the EU or such other European countries that do not comply with RoHS could have its products detained and could be subject to penalties. We have decided not to ship any Cray X1E or Cray XD1 systems to Europe after July 1, 2006, due to these restrictions, and we are working with our suppliers to assure RoHS compliance with respect to our other products. We may have to redesign and re-qualify certain components in order to meet RoHS 19 Table of Contents requirements, may face increased engineering expenses in this process, and could face shipment delays, penalties and possible product detentions or seizures if a regulatory authority determines that one of our products is not RoHS compliant. A separate EU Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) was scheduled to become effective in August 2005, but many EU member states have delayed its implementation. Under the WEEE Directive, companies that put electrical and electronic equipment on the EU market must register with individual member states, mark their products, submit annual reports, provide recyclers with information about product recycling, and either recycle their products or participate in or fund mandatory recycling schemes. In addition, some EU member states require recycling fees to be paid in advance to ensure funds are available for product recycling at the end of the product’s useful life or de-installation. We have begun to mark our products as required by the WEEE Directive and are registering with those EU member states where our products are sold. Each EU member state is responsible for implementing the WEEE Directive and some member states have not yet established WEEE registrars or established or endorsed the recycling schemes required by the WEEE Directive. We are actively monitoring implementation of the WEEE Directive by the member states. Compliance with the WEEE Directive could increase our costs and any failure to comply with the WEEE Directive could lead to monetary penalties. Class action and derivative lawsuits are pending and additional lawsuits may be filed. We and certain of our former and current officers and directors have been named as defendants in a consolidated class action lawsuit pending in federal district court for the Western District of Washington alleging certain violations of the federal securities laws. A consolidated derivative action purporting to be brought on our behalf against certain of our former and current officers and directors is also pending in the same federal district court. A similar consolidated derivative action is pending in a state court in King County, Washington. These cases are still in their early stages. Additional lawsuits may be filed against us. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below for a description of this litigation. An adverse result in the federal securities cases could have a material negative financial impact on us. Regardless of the outcome, it is likely that such actions would cause a diversion of our management’s time, resources and attention, and the expense of defending the litigation may be costly. We are subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory proceedings or actions in connection with the restatement of prior period financial statements. We have restated our previously issued financial statement for the fiscal year 2004, including interim periods in 2004. We may in the future be subject to class action suits, other litigation or regulatory proceedings arising in relation to the restatement of our prior period financial statements. Any expenses incurred in connection with this potential litigation or regulatory proceeding not covered by available insurance or any adverse resolution of this potential litigation or regulatory proceeding could have a material adverse impact on us. Regardless of the outcome, it is likely that such actions or proceedings would cause a diversion of our management’s time, resources and attention, and the expense of defending any litigation or proceeding may be costly. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) will lower our earnings and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have used stock-based compensation, primarily stock options and an employee stock purchase plan, as a key component in our employee compensation. We previously granted stock options to each new employee and to all employees on an annual basis. We believe we have structured these programs to align the incentives for employees with those of our long-term shareholders. We are reviewing our stock-based compensation programs and their structure in light of the imposition of SFAS 123(R) which became effective for us on January 1, 2006. In previous years, as we have reported in the notes to our financial statements, our stock option program, as currently structured, would add approximately $7 million to $26 million of additional non-cash expense annually and consequently would reduce our operating results by that amount. These estimates are based on use of the Black-Scholes valuation method. In the first half of 2005, we accelerated the vesting of our outstanding employee stock options with a per share exercise price of $1.47 or higher, resulting in the complete vesting of almost all of our then outstanding options, and we granted new stock options that vested on or before December 31, 2005, in order in part to minimize this expense, at least in the short-term. We recently have granted some stock options to certain new employees with four-year vesting periods and have issued restricted stock grants to certain employees and officers, which will be recorded as an expense in 2006 and subsequent years. We do not know how 20 Table of Contents analysts and investors will react to the additional expense recorded in our statement of operations rather than in the notes, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. U.S. export controls could hinder our ability to make sales to foreign customers and our future prospects. The U.S. government regulates the export of high performance computer systems such as our products. Occasionally we have experienced delays in receiving appropriate approvals necessary for certain sales, which have delayed the shipment of our products. Delay or denial in the granting of any required licenses could make it more difficult to make sales to foreign customers, eliminating an important source of potential revenue. We incorporate software licensed from third parties into the operating systems for our products and any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products or defects in these products could reduce the demand for our products. The operating system software we develop for our high performance computer systems contains components that are licensed to us under “open source” software licenses. Our business could be disrupted if this software, or functional equivalents of this software, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case we would be required either to redesign our operating system software to function with alternate third-party software, or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in product shipments. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future operating system software offerings. Our Cray XD1 and Cray XT3 systems utilize software system variants that incorporate Linux technology. The SCO Group, Inc. has filed and threatened to file lawsuits against companies that operate Linux for commercial purposes, alleging that such use of Linux infringes The SCO Group’s rights. It is possible that The SCO Group could assert a claim of infringement against us with respect to our use of Linux technology. The open source licenses under which we have obtained certain components of our operating system software may not be enforceable. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that Linux-based operating systems, or significant portions of them, may not be copied, modified or distributed as provided in those licenses, would adversely affect our ability to sell our systems. In addition, as a result of concerns about The SCO Group’s lawsuit and open source generally, we may be forced to protect our customers from potential claims of infringement by The SCO Group or other parties. In any such event, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We also incorporate proprietary software from third parties, such as for file systems, job scheduling and storage subsystems. We have experienced some functional issues in the past with implementing such software with our supercomputer systems. These issues, if repeated, may result in additional expense by us in integrating this software more fully and/or loss of customer confidence. We have recently formed a new senior management team that must work together effectively for us to be successful. In 2005 we revamped our senior management team, obtaining the services of Margaret A. Williams as Senior Vice President responsible for research and development, Brian C. Henry as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Jan C. Silverman as Senior Vice President responsible for corporate strategy and business development and Steven L. Scott as Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, and Peter J. Ungaro was elevated to Chief Executive Officer. We recently added a new vice president/corporate controller and a new vice president responsible for human resources. Additional changes to our senior management team, and the integration of new senior executives, could result in some disruption to our business while these new executives become familiar with our business culture and model and establish their management systems. If our new management team, including any additional senior executives who join us in the future, is unable to work together effectively to implement our strategies, manage our operations and accomplish our business objectives, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be severely impaired. The loss of any key senior management could have a significant impact on our efforts to improve operating results. While we believe that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, as of the end of each subsequent fiscal year we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such future evaluations could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse 21 Table of Contents effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other items, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. In our amended 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K/ A, we identified and described a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which required our assessment that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, and our independent registered public accounting firm disclaimed an opinion with respect to our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. We implemented remediation plans to address the identified material weaknesses, and our management has concluded, as set forth under “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” below, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005, and we received a favorable opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our management’s assessment, also as set forth under “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” below. However, each year we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting and determine whether we have any material weaknesses. Depending on their nature and severity, any future material weaknesses could result in our having to restate financial statements, could make it difficult or impossible for us to obtain an audit of our annual financial statements or could result in a qualification of any such audit. In such events, we could experience a number of adverse consequences, including our inability to comply with applicable reporting and listing requirements, a loss of market confidence in our publicly available information, delisting from Nasdaq, loss of financing sources such as our line of credit, and litigation based on the events themselves or their consequences. We may infringe or be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and such claims, if proved, could require us to pay substantial damages or to redesign our existing products. Regardless of the merits, any claim of infringement requires management attention and causes us to incur significant expense to defend. We may not be able to protect our proprietary information and rights adequately. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret protection, nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish, protect and enforce our proprietary information and rights. We have a number of patents and have additional applications pending. There can be no assurance, however, that patents will be issued from the pending applications or that any issued patents will protect adequately those aspects of our technology to which such patents will relate. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that we will succeed in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Although we continue to implement protective measures and intend to defend our proprietary rights vigorously, these efforts may not be successful. Risk Factors Pertaining to our Notes and Our Common Stock Our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial strength. With the sale of the Notes, we incurred $80.0 million of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, we had no other outstanding indebtedness for money borrowed and no material equipment lease obligations. We have a $30.0 million secured credit facility which supports the issuance of letters of credit, of which $11.3 million were outstanding as of December 31, 2005 (the outstanding letters of credit were reduced to $1.4 million as of February 1, 2006), and provides us the remaining availability for potential borrowing. As of February 6, 2006, the line of credit also supports a forward currency contract designated as a cash flow hedge on a specific sales contract. See Note 20 — Subsequent Events of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, below. We may incur additional 22 Table of Contents indebtedness for money borrowed, which may include borrowing under new credit facilities or the issuance of new debt securities. The level of our indebtedness could, among other things: • make it difficult or impossible for us to make payments on the Notes; • increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions, including recessions; • require us to use cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other expenses; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds that may be needed to operate and expand our business. Our existing and any future credit facilities may adversely affect our ability to make payments under the Notes. Our existing senior secured credit agreement contains covenants relating to our business, including covenants that require us to maintain or achieve specified financial performance standards, and contains specified events of default. We anticipate that any future credit facility would contain similar types of provisions. Our failure to comply with any of those covenants or the occurrence of any of those specified events of default, if not cured (to the extent cure is permitted under the agreement) or waived, could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the existing or any future credit facilities. If our credit facility is in default, we will be required by the indenture, or in certain cases after a notice from our lender pursuant to the indenture, to suspend or defer payments under the Notes. Because our credit facility constitutes senior indebtedness, any enforcement by the Note holders of their rights under the indenture to such payments could lead to our insolvency and a proceeding in which our senior and secured indebtedness would have priority over claims under the Notes. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate expenses. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the Notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate expenses will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund our other needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to pay our indebtedness, we may need to pursue one or more alternatives, such as: • reducing our operating expenses; • reducing or delaying capital expenditures or research and development; • selling assets; • raising additional equity capital and/or debt; and • seeking legal protection from our creditors. Any reduction in operating expenses, reduction or delay in capital expenditures, or sale of assets may materially and adversely affect our future revenue prospects. In addition, we may not be able to raise additional equity capital or debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Finally, any of the above actions may not provide sufficient cash to repay our indebtedness, including the Notes. There are no covenants in the indenture for the Notes restricting our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur future indebtedness or restricting the terms of any such indebtedness. The indenture governing the Notes does not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the amount or terms of indebtedness that we or any of our subsidiaries may incur. We may therefore incur additional debt 23 Table of Contents without limitation by the indenture for the Notes, including senior indebtedness, to which the Notes are contractually subordinated, and secured indebtedness, to which the Notes are effectively subordinated. In addition, our subsidiaries may incur additional debt to which the Notes are structurally subordinated, without limitation. We or our subsidiaries may also agree to terms of any such indebtedness that may restrict our flexibility in complying with our obligations under the Notes. If we or any of our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we and they now face may intensify. Our credit facility, however, currently restricts our ability, directly or through our subsidiaries, to incur additional indebtedness. The Notes are subordinated in right of payment to our existing and future senior indebtedness. The Notes are our general unsecured senior subordinated obligations. The Notes rank junior in right of payment to our existing and future senior indebtedness, including our existing line of credit, and equal in right of payment with any future indebtedness or other obligation that is not, by its terms, either senior or subordinated to the Notes. The indenture for the Notes does not limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness of any kind. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, the note holders will share in any assets available to our general creditors, only after all obligations to the holders of senior indebtedness have been paid. The note holders do not have the right to limit the amount of senior indebtedness or the competing claims of our general creditors. The Notes are effectively subordinated to our secured indebtedness and are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of our current and future subsidiaries. The Notes are general unsecured obligations and are effectively subordinated to our current and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the assets securing the indebtedness. The indenture for the Notes does not limit our ability to incur secured indebtedness. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or upon acceleration of our secured indebtedness and in certain other events, our assets pledged in support of secured indebtedness will not be available to pay our obligations under the Notes. As a result, we may not have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on any or all of the Notes. In addition, the Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of our current and future subsidiaries. Note holders do not have any claim as a creditor against our subsidiaries, and indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, of our subsidiaries effectively are senior to Note holders’ claims against our subsidiaries. The indenture for the Notes does not limit the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness or other liabilities. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of any of our subsidiaries, holders of their indebtedness and their trade creditors will generally be entitled to payment on their claims from assets of that subsidiary before any assets are made available for distribution to our direct creditors. We and one of our subsidiaries, Cray Federal Inc., are obligated for all indebtedness under our senior secured credit agreement with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc., and that agreement is secured by all of our assets and those of Cray Federal Inc. and by pledges of the stock of our subsidiaries, and is supported by guaranties by certain of our subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, holders of senior debt can require us to suspend or defer cash payments due in respect of the Notes. If we are in default as to any payment obligation under any Senior Debt, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes, including a payment default that results from the acceleration of such Senior Debt as a result of a non-payment default, we will be prohibited, under the terms of the indenture from making any further cash payments in respect of the Notes until such default has been cured or waived or shall have ceased to exist. In addition, if we incur a non-payment default under any Designated Senior Debt, as defined in the indenture, the holder or holders may provide, or cause to be provided, a notice to the indenture trustee that will have the effect of prohibiting any further cash payments in respect of the Notes for a period not exceeding 179 days from the date on which the trustee receives the notice or until such default is earlier cured or waived. A holder of Designated Senior Debt may have the right to accelerate such debt as a result of the non-payment default during the 179 day blockage period or otherwise, in which event future payments in respect of the Notes will be prohibited as described above. Our obligations under our existing senior secured credit agreement constitute Senior Debt and Designated Senior Debt under the indenture. 24 Table of Contents Unless a condition to conversion is met prior to the maturity of the Notes, the Notes will not be convertible at any time. The Notes are convertible only upon the occurrence of stated conditions. If none of these conditions occurs during the term of the Notes, the Notes will never be convertible and the holders may never have an opportunity to realize any appreciation in value based on the value of our common stock. Upon conversion of the Notes, we may pay cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock in lieu of issuing shares of our common stock. Therefore, Note holders may receive no shares of our common stock or fewer shares than the number into which their Notes are convertible. We have the right to satisfy our conversion obligation to Note holders by issuing shares of our common stock into which the Notes are convertible, paying the cash value of the shares of our common stock into which the Notes are convertible, or a combination thereof. In addition, we have the right to irrevocably elect to satisfy our conversion obligation in cash with respect to the principal amount of the Notes to be converted after the date of such election. Accordingly, upon a conversion of a Note, a holder may not receive any shares of our common stock, or it might receive fewer shares of our common stock relative to the conversion value of the Note. Our liquidity may be reduced to the extent that we choose to deliver cash rather than shares of our common stock upon conversion of Notes. If a principal conversion settlement election is made, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the cash settlement upon conversion. If we make a principal conversion settlement election, upon conversion of the Notes, we will be required to satisfy our conversion obligation relating to the principal amount of such Notes in cash. If a significant number of holders were to tender their Notes for conversion at any given time, we may not have the financial resources available to pay the principal amount in cash on all such Notes tendered for conversion. The conversion rate of the Notes may not be adjusted for all dilutive events, including third-party tender or exchange offers, that may adversely affect the trading price of the Notes or our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes. The conversion rate of the Notes is subject to adjustment upon specified events, including specified issuances of stock dividends on our common stock, issuances of rights or warrants, subdivisions, combinations, distributions of capital stock or assets, cash dividends and issuer tender or exchange offers. The conversion rate will not be adjusted upon other events, such as third-party tender or exchange offers, that may adversely affect the trading price of the Notes or our common stock. If we pay cash dividends on our common stock, Note holders may be deemed to have received a taxable dividend without the receipt of cash. If we pay cash dividends on our common stock and there is a resulting adjustment to the conversion rate, a Note holder could be deemed to have received a taxable dividend subject to U.S. federal income tax without the receipt of any cash. If we elect to settle upon conversion in cash or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, there will be a delay in settlement. Upon conversion, if we elect to settle in cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, there will be a significant delay in settlement. In addition, because the amount of cash or common stock that a Note holder will receive in these circumstances will be based on the sale price of our common stock for an extended period between the conversion date and such settlement date, holders will bear the market risk with respect to the value of the common stock for such extended period. Some significant corporate transactions may not constitute a fundamental change, in which case we would not be obligated to offer to repurchase the Notes. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes, which includes specified change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding Notes. The fundamental change provisions, however, will not require us to offer to repurchase the Notes in the event of some significant corporate transactions. For example, various transactions, such as leveraged recapitalizations, refinancings, restructurings or acquisitions initiated by us, would not constitute a change of control and, therefore, would not constitute a fundamental change requiring us to repurchase the Notes. Other transactions may not constitute a fundamental change because they do not involve a change in voting power or beneficial ownership of the type described in the definition of fundamental change. Accordingly, Note holders may not have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes in the event of a significant transaction that could increase the amount of our 25 Table of Contents indebtedness, adversely affect our capital structure or any credit ratings or otherwise adversely affect the holders of Notes. In addition, a fundamental change includes a sale of all or substantially all of our properties and assets. Although there is limited law interpreting the phrase “substantially all,” there is no precise established definition of the phrase under the laws of New York, which govern the indenture and the Notes, or under the laws of Washington, our state of incorporation. Accordingly, a Note holder’s ability to require us to repurchase Notes as a result of a sale of less than all of our properties and assets may be uncertain. Our Notes may not be rated or may receive a lower rating than investors anticipate, which could cause a decline in the trading volume and market price of the Notes and our common stock. We do not intend to seek a rating on the Notes, and we believe it is unlikely the Notes will be rated. If, however, one or more rating agencies rates the Notes and assigns a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces any rating in the future, the trading volume and market price of the Notes and our common stock may be adversely affected. We may not have the funds necessary to purchase the Notes upon a fundamental change or other purchase date and our ability to purchase the Notes in such events may be limited. On December 1, 2009, December 1, 2014 and December 1, 2019, holders of the Notes may require us to purchase their Notes for cash. In addition, holders may also require us to purchase their Notes upon a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. Our ability to repurchase the Notes in such events may be limited by law, and by the terms of other indebtedness, including the terms of senior indebtedness, we may have outstanding at the time of such events. Our existing senior secured credit facility does not permit us to repurchase any of the Notes without the prior written consent of the lender, including any repurchase following a fundamental change as defined in the indenture. Any subsequent credit facility may include similar provisions. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to repurchase the Notes tendered to us for purchase. If a repurchase event occurs, we expect that we would require third-party financing to repurchase the Notes, but we may not be able to obtain that financing on favorable terms or at all. Our failure to repurchase tendered Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. In addition, a default under the indenture or the occurrence of a fundamental change which results in any Note holder delivering a fundamental change purchase notice electing repurchase of any notes each constitutes a default under our existing senior secured credit facility and could lead to defaults under other existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness. In these circumstances, the subordination provisions in the indenture governing the Notes may limit or prohibit payments to Note holders. If, due to a default, the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness or repurchase the Notes. The make whole premium payable on Notes that are converted in connection with certain fundamental changes may not adequately compensate Note holders for the lost option time value of the Notes as a result of that fundamental change. If any of certain fundamental changes occurs on or prior to December 1, 2009, we will under certain circumstances pay a make whole premium on the Notes that are converted in connection with such fundamental change. The amount of the make whole premium and additional shares delivered depends on the date on which the fundamental change becomes effective and the price paid per share of our common stock in the transaction constituting the fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. Although the make whole premium is designed to compensate Note holders for the lost option value of the Notes as a result of the fundamental change, the amount of the make whole premium is only an approximation of the lost value and may not adequately compensate Note holders for the loss. In addition, if a fundamental change occurs after December 1, 2009, or if the applicable price is less than or equal to $3.51 per share or greater than $10.50 per share (in each case, subject to adjustment), then we will not pay any make whole premium. Also, a holder may not receive the make whole premium payable upon conversion until the fundamental change repurchase date relating to the applicable fundamental change, or even later, which could be a significant period of time after the date the holder has tendered its Notes for conversion. There are restrictions on the Note holders’ ability to transfer or resell the Notes without registration under applicable securities laws, and if we fail to fulfill our obligations to keep effective the registration 26 Table of Contents statement covering the resale of the Notes, we will be required to pay additional interest on the Notes affected by that failure and to issue additional shares of common stock on Notes converted during such failure and satisfied by us in common stock. We sold the Notes under an exemption from registration under applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws. The registration statement covering the resale of the Notes and underlying common stock became effective in July 2005. Under the registration rights agreement, we are permitted to suspend the use of the effective registration statement for specific periods of time for certain specified reasons. If we fail to fulfill our obligations specified in the registration rights agreement governing the Notes, we will be required to pay additional interest on Notes adversely affected by such failure. Such additional interest will accrue from the date of such failure at a rate per year equal to 0.25% for the first 90 days, and 0.50% thereafter, on the principal amount of such Notes until such failure is cured or until the registration statement is no longer required to be kept effective and is payable on the scheduled interest payment dates. If a holder converts Notes during a registration default, no accrued and unpaid additional interest will be paid with respect to the Notes converted, but the holder would receive on any conversion that we elect to satisfy in common stock 103% of the number of shares of our common stock that such holder would have received in the absence of such default. We would have no other liability for monetary damages for a failure to fulfill our registration obligations. There is no active market for the Notes and if an active trading market does not develop for these Notes, the holders of the Notes may be unable to resell them. The Notes are a new issue of securities for which the only current trading market is the Nasdaq’s screen-based automated trading system known as PORTAL, which facilitates the trading of unregistered securities eligible to be resold by qualified institutional buyers pursuant to SEC Rule 144A. The resale of the Notes is registered under the Securities Act. Any Notes resold using an effective prospectus will no longer be eligible for trading in the PORTAL market. Moreover, if enough Notes are converted, redeemed or sold pursuant to an effective prospectus, trading of Notes in the PORTAL market may become inactive or may cease altogether. In that event, and in the absence of an alternative trading market, there would exist no organized market for the Notes from which their market value could be determined or realized. We do not intend to list the Notes on any national securities exchange or to seek the admission of the Notes for trading in the Nasdaq National Market or SmallCap Market. We have been advised by Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. that it is currently making a market in the Notes. However, it is not obligated to do so and any market-making activities with respect to the Notes may be discontinued at any time without notice. In addition, market-making activity is subject to the limits imposed by law. Further, even if a market in the Notes develops, the Notes could trade at prices lower than the initial offering price. In addition, the liquidity of, and the trading market for, the Notes may be adversely affected by many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the markets for similar securities, general economic conditions, our financial condition, performance and prospects and general declines or disruptions in the market for non-investment grade debt. Our stock price is volatile. The stock market has been and is subject to price and volume fluctuations that particularly affect the market prices for small capitalization, high technology companies like us. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including our quarterly operating results (particularly if they are less than our or analysts’ previous estimates), changes in analysts’ estimates, our capital raising activities, announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors and general conditions in our industry. A substantial number of our shares are eligible for future sale and may depress the market price of our common stock and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding: • 90,973,506 shares of common stock, and 78,840 shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of certain exchangeable securities issued in connection with the acquisition of OctigaBay Systems Corporation in April 2004 (all 78,840 exchangeable shares were exchanged for an equivalent number of shares of our common stock in January 2006); • warrants to purchase 5,634,049 shares of common stock; 27 Table of Contents • stock options to purchase an aggregate of 18,000,580 shares of common stock, of which 17,982,045 options were then exercisable; and • Notes convertible into up to 22,792,016 shares of common stock. Almost all of our outstanding shares of common stock may be sold without substantial restrictions, with certain exceptions including approximately two million shares held by executive officers and key managers that may be forfeited and are restricted against transfer until June 30, 2007. Almost all of the shares of common stock that may be issued on exercise of the warrants and options will be available for sale in the public market when issued, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. The warrants outstanding at December 31, 2005, consisted of warrants to purchase 294,641 shares of common stock, with exercise prices ranging from $4.50 to $6.00 per share, expiring between May 21, 2006, and September 3, 2006, warrants to purchase 200,000 shares of common stock, with an exercise price of $1.65 per share, expiring on May 30, 2009, and warrants to purchase 5,139,408 shares of common stock, with an exercise price of $2.53 per share, expiring on June 21, 2009. We have authorized 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, although no shares are currently outstanding. The Notes are not now convertible, and only become convertible upon the occurrence of certain events. We have registered the resale of the Notes and of the underlying common stock under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which facilitates transferability of those securities. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our common stock, including sales of common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants, options and Notes, may depress prevailing market prices for the common stock. Even the perception that sales could occur may impact market prices adversely. The existence of outstanding warrants, options and Notes may prove to be a hindrance to our future financings. Further, the holders of warrants, options and Notes may exercise or convert them for shares of common stock at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Such factors could impair our ability to meet our capital needs. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make a proposed acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors more difficult. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. For example, our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for: • removal of a director only in limited circumstances and only upon the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote to elect directors; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock, without shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • no cumulative voting of shares; • calling a special meeting of the shareholders only upon demand by the holders of not less than 30% of the shares entitled to vote at such a meeting; • amendments to our Restated Articles of Incorporation require the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the amendment, unless the amendment was approved by a majority of our continuing directors, who are defined as directors who have either served as a director since August 31, 1995, or were nominated to be a director by the continuing directors; • special voting requirements for mergers and other business combinations, unless the proposed transaction was approved by a majority of continuing directors; • special procedures to bring matters before our shareholders at our annual shareholders’ meeting; and • special procedures to nominate members for election to our board of directors. These provisions could delay, defer or prevent a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business transaction between us and a third party. 28 Table of Contents We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never paid any dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us, and any future credit facility is likely to prohibit us, from paying cash dividends without the consent of our lender. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 