Risk Factors. The following factors should be considered in evaluating our business, operations, prospects and common stock; they may affect our future results and financial condition and they may affect an investment in our securities. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and we may not achieve profitability in any given period. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to the factors listed below, which make estimating revenue and operating results for any specific period very difficult, particularly as the product revenue recognized in any given quarter may depend on a very limited number of system sales planned for that quarter, the timing of product acceptances by customers and contractual provisions affecting revenue recognition. For example, we expect a substantial portion of our potential product revenue in the first half of 2007 to come from a few principal transactions, and a significant portion of our product revenue in late 2007 to come from upgrades to the Cray XT4 system utilizing quad-core AMD Opteron processors with new scalable system software as well as the Cray XMT and BlackWidow systems, each of which currently is in development. Delays in recognizing revenue from any of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for those quarters, and could shift associated revenue, margin and cash receipts into a subsequent quarter or fiscal year. We experienced net losses in each full year of our development-stage operations prior to 2002. For 2002 we had net income of $5.4 million and for 2003 we had net income of $63.2 million, including an income tax benefit of $42.2 million substantially all of which came from the reversal of a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. For 2004 we had a net loss of $207.4 million, including an expense for in-process research and development of $43.4 million and an income tax expense of $59.1 million, of which $58.9 million related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. For 2005 we had a net loss of $64.3 million, and for 2006 we had a net loss of $12.1 million, with net losses in the first three quarters of the year offsetting net income of $8.7 million in the fourth quarter. Whether we will be able to increase our revenue and achieve and sustain profitability on a quarterly and annual basis depends on a number of factors, including: • successfully selling the Cray XT4 system, including upgrades and successor systems, and new products based on our BlackWidow project and Cray XMT system, and the timing and funding of government purchases, especially in the United States; • the level of revenue recognized in any given period, particularly with very high average sales prices and limited number of system sales in any quarter, the timing of product acceptances by customers and contractual provisions affecting the timing of revenue recognition; • the level of product margin contribution in any given period due to product mix, strategic transactions, product life cycle and component costs; • the level and timing of maintenance contract renewals with existing customers; • maintaining our product development projects on schedule and within budgetary limitations; • revenue delays or losses due to customers postponing purchases to wait for future upgraded or new systems, delays in delivery of upgraded or new systems and longer than expected customer acceptance cycles; • our expense levels, including research and development net of government funding, which may be affected by the level and timing of such funding; • the terms and conditions of sale or lease for our products; and • the impact of expensing our share-based compensation under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment (“FAS 123R”). 14 Table of Contents The timing of orders and shipments impact our quarterly and annual results and are affected by events outside our control, such as: • the timely availability of acceptable components in sufficient quantities to meet customer delivery schedules; • the timing and level of government funding for product acquisitions and research and development contracts; • the availability of adequate customer facilities to install and operate new Cray systems; • general economic trends, including changes in levels of customer capital spending; • the introduction or announcement of competitive products; • currency fluctuations, international conflicts or economic crises; and • the receipt and timing of necessary export licenses. Because of the numerous factors affecting our revenue and results of operations, we cannot assure our investors that we will have net income on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. We anticipate that our quarterly results will vary significantly, and include losses. Delays in product development, receipt of orders or product acceptances could have a substantial adverse effect on our quarterly and full year results in 2007 and in future years. Failure to sell Cray XT4 systems in planned quantities and at expected gross margins could adversely affect revenue and operating results in 2007 and future periods. We expect that a substantial majority of our product revenue in 2007 will come from a limited number of sales of Cray XT4 systems in the United States and overseas. We shipped the first Cray XT4 system in late November 2006, and we received the first customer acceptance of a Cray XT4 system in the first quarter of 2007. We will require timely availability of quad-core AMD Opteron processors in the second half of 2007 and timely completion of scalable system software for large systems if we are to receive product acceptances planned for the fourth quarter of 2007. We also face significant margin pressure for our Cray XT4 system from competitors. If we do not sell these systems in planned quantities and at expected gross margins, our 2007 revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. In order to command higher margins in 2007 and beyond, we need increased performance differentiation from our competitors in our Cray XT4 and Baker massively parallel products. The market for such products is larger but is replete with low bandwidth cluster systems offered by larger competitors with significant resources and smaller companies with minimal research and development expenditures. Potential customers may be able to meet their computing needs through the use of such systems, and are willing to accept lower capability and less accurate modeling in return for lower acquisition costs. Vendors of such systems, because they can offer high peak performance per dollar, put pricing pressure on us in certain competitive procurements. Our long-term success may be adversely affected if we are not successful in maintaining the value of our balanced high bandwidth systems with the capability of solving challenging problems quickly to a market beyond our core of customers, largely certain agencies of the U.S. and other governments, that require systems with the performance and features we offer. Our inability to complete the development of our Cray XMT and BlackWidow supercomputer systems would adversely affect our revenue and operating results in 2007. Our 2007 plan contemplates significant product revenue and gross margin from sales of the Cray XMT and our BlackWidow systems. These systems are still in development, and are not planned for general availability until late in 2007. These hardware and software development efforts are lengthy and technically challenging processes. We must re-spin integrated circuits for the BlackWidow system and the Cray XMT system. Delays in successfully completing the design and production of these hardware components, including several custom integrated circuits and network components; delays in detecting and correcting, if possible, design errors in such integrated circuits and components; and/or delays in developing requisite system software and needed software features and integrating and stabilizing the full systems 15 Table of Contents would make it difficult for us to develop these systems timely and successfully in time for revenue recognition during 2007. Our reliance on third-party suppliers poses significant risks to our business and prospects. We subcontract the manufacture of a majority of all of the hardware components for all of our products, including integrated circuits, printed circuit boards, connectors, cables, power supplies and memory parts, on a sole or limited source basis to third-party suppliers. We use contract manufacturers to assemble our components for all of our systems. We also rely on third parties to supply key capabilities, such as file systems and storage subsystems. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on limited or sole source suppliers. For example: • if a supplier does not provide components that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities on time, then production and sales of our systems would be delayed, adversely affecting revenue and cash flow — these risks are accentuated during steep production ramp periods as we introduce new or successor products; • if an interruption of supply of our components occurs, because of a significant problem with a supplier providing parts that later prove to be defective or because a single-source supplier imposes allocations on its customers, decides to no longer provide those components to us or increases the price of those parts significantly, it could take us a considerable period of time to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, to redesign our products as necessary and to begin manufacture of the redesigned components. In some cases, we may not be able to redesign such components. Defective components may need to be replaced, which may result in increased costs and obsolete inventory. See also the Risk Factor captioned “We face last-time buy decisions affecting all of our current products, which may adversely affect our revenue and operating results,” below; • if a supplier cannot provide a competitive key component, our systems may be less competitive than systems using components with greater capability; and • some of our key suppliers are small companies with limited financial and other resources, and consequently may be more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than are larger, well-established companies. Our Cray XT4 and successor systems utilize AMD Opteron processors as will planned upgrade and successor products. Our performance in the fourth quarter of 2007 depends in part on the timely availability of quad-core Opteron processors from AMD, and a delay in availability of these processors could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, earnings and cash flow. To the extent that Intel, IBM or other processor suppliers develop processors with greater capabilities, even for a short time, our Cray systems, including upgrades and successor products, may be at a competitive disadvantage to systems utilizing such other processors. Our Cray XMT system is based on custom processors manufactured for us by TSMC. If any of our integrated circuit suppliers suffers delays or cancels the development of enhancements to its processors, our product revenue would be adversely affected. Changing our product designs to utilize another supplier’s integrated circuits would be a costly and time-consuming process. Our products must meet demanding specifications. For example, integrated circuits must perform reliably at high frequencies to meet acceptance criteria. From time to time during the last three years, we incurred significant delays in the receipt of key components which delayed product shipments and acceptances. The delays in product shipments and acceptances adversely affected revenue and margins in those years, and, to the extent that we experience similar problems in the future, such delays may adversely affect 2007 and future revenue and margins. We have also received parts that later proved defective, particularly for the Cray XD1 and Cray XT3 systems, which adversely affected our product and service margins and customer confidence. If the U.S. government purchases fewer supercomputers, our revenue would be reduced and our operating results would be adversely affected. Historically, sales to the U.S. government and customers primarily serving the U.S. government have represented a significant market for supercomputers, including our products. From January 1, 2001, through December 31, 2003, approximately 81% of our aggregate product revenue was derived from sales to various agencies of the U.S. government; in 2004, 2005 and 2006 approximately 81%, 55% and 45%, respectively, of our product revenue was derived from such sales. Our 2007 and future plans contemplate significant sales to U.S. government agencies. Sales to government agencies may be affected by factors outside our control, such as changes in procurement policies, budgetary considerations, domestic crises, and 16 Table of Contents international political developments. The President signed a government fiscal year 2007 appropriations bill for most government departments and agencies, including the Department of Energy and the National Science Foundation, in mid-February 2007; it will take some time for individual agencies and projects to know the scope of their funding, and this delay and any resulting shortfall may adversely affect the level and timing of supercomputer acquisitions and the amount and timeliness of cash receipts in the remainder of this governmental fiscal year. If agencies and departments of the United States or other governments were to stop, reduce or delay their use and purchases of supercomputers, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. If we lose government support for development of our supercomputer systems, our net research and development expenditures and capital requirements would increase and our ability to conduct research and development would decrease. A few government agencies and research laboratories fund a significant portion of our development efforts, including our BlackWidow, Cray XMT and Cascade projects, which significantly reduces our reported level of net research and development expenses. Our development projects for our BlackWidow and multithreaded projects are expected to be funded through September 2007 but the timing of current funding as well as future funding for these projects may be at risk. This could result in significant quarterly fluctuations in research and development expense. Agencies of the U.S. government historically have facilitated the development of, and have constituted a market for, new and enhanced very high performance computer systems. U.S. government agencies may delay or decrease funding of our future product development efforts due to product development delays, a change of priorities, international political developments, overall budgetary considerations or for any other reason. Any delay or decrease in other governmental support would cause an increased need for capital, increase significantly our research and development expenditures and adversely impact our operating results and our ability to implement our product roadmap. Failure to overcome the technical challenges of completing the development of our supercomputer systems on our product roadmap would adversely affect our revenue and operating results in subsequent years. In addition to developing the Cray XMT and BlackWidow systems for general availability and scalable system software for quad-core Cray XT4 systems in the second half of 2007, we continue work on our product roadmap, including the Baker project as the successor to the Cray XT4 system and our Cascade program under the DARPA HPCS Phase III award to implement our Adaptive Supercomputing vision. These hardware and software development efforts are lengthy and technically challenging processes, and require a significant investment of capital, engineering and other resources. Our engineering and technical personnel resources are limited. Unanticipated performance and/or development issues may require more engineers, time or testing resources than are currently available. Engineering resources directed to solving current issues may adversely affect the timely development of successor or future products. Given the breadth of our engineering challenges and our limited resources, we periodically review the anticipated contributions and expense of our product programs to determine their long-term viability. We may not be successful in meeting our development schedules for technical reasons and/or because of insufficient hardware and software engineering resources, which could cause a lack of confidence in our capabilities among our key customers. To the extent we incur delays in completing the design, development and production of hardware components, delays in development of requisite system software or uncover stability issues, whether for software or hardware, our revenue, results of operations and cash flows, and the reputation of such systems in the market could be adversely affected. Future sales of our products may be adversely affected by any of these factors. We have suffered significantly from product delays in the past, especially in 2004 and 2005, that adversely affected our financial performance, and we continue to incur some stability issues typical of new large installations. We may incur similar delays and stability issues in 2007 and subsequent years, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results in those periods. The achievement of our business plan is highly dependent on increased product revenue and margins. Product revenue in recent years has been adversely affected by delays in product shipments due to development delays, including system software development for large systems, and at times by the availability of key components from third-party vendors. System stability issues typical of new large systems previously have affected the timing of system acceptances, which adversely affects our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. In the past, product margins have been adversely impacted by competitive pressures, lower volumes than planned and higher than anticipated manufacturing variances, including scrap, rework and excess and obsolete inventory. 17 Table of Contents We sometimes do not meet all of the contract requirements for customer acceptance of our systems, which have resulted in contract penalties. Most often these penalties adversely affect the gross margin on a sale through the provision of additional equipment and services to satisfy delivery delays and performance shortfalls, although there is the risk of contract defaults and product return. The risk of contract penalties is increased when we bid for new business prior to completion of product development. To improve our financial performance, we need to limit negative manufacturing variances, contract penalties and other charges that adversely affect product margin. We face last-time buy decisions affecting all of our current products, which may adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We placed last-time buy orders for parts used to manufacture our Cray X1/X1E and Cray XD1 products in 2006 and placed a last-time buy order in the first quarter of 2007 for a key component for our Cray XT4 and Cray XMT systems and our BlackWidow project. Such last-time buy orders and inventory purchases were placed before we could know all possible sales prospects for these products. In determining last-time buy orders and inventory purchases, we either may have estimated low, in which case we limited the number of possible sales of products and reduced potential revenue, perhaps substantially, or we may have estimated too high, and may incur inventory obsolescence charges. Either way, our operating results could be adversely affected. These last-time buy decisions adversely impact short-term cash flow and increase inventory because the items are paid for well in advance of customer revenue. For example, in the last three months we have placed orders for approximately $12.0 million of certain components for which we expect delivery in 2007 but do not expect to sell the major part of the products containing these components until sometime in 2008. If we are unable to compete successfully in the HPC market, our revenue will decline. The performance of our products may not be competitive with the computer systems offered by our competitors. Many of our competitors are established companies well known in the HPC market, including IBM, NEC, Hewlett-Packard, SGI, Dell, Bull S.A. and Sun Microsystems. Most of these competitors have substantially greater research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we do. We also compete with systems builders and resellers of systems that are constructed from commodity components using processors manufactured by Intel, AMD, IBM and others. These competitors include the previously named companies as well as smaller firms that benefit from the low research and development costs needed to assemble systems from commercially available commodity products. These companies have capitalized on developments in parallel processing and increased computer performance in commodity-based networking and cluster systems. While these companies’ products are more limited in applicability and scalability, they have achieved growing market acceptance. They offer significant peak/price performance on larger problems lacking complexity. Such companies, because they can offer high peak performance per dollar, can put pricing pressure on us in certain competitive procurements. In addition, to the extent that Intel, IBM and other processor suppliers develop processors with greater capabilities than the processors we use from AMD, our Cray XT4 systems and successor products may be at a competitive disadvantage to systems utilizing such other processors. Internationally we compete primarily with IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, Bull S.A., SGI and NEC. While the first five companies offer large systems based on commodity processors, NEC also offers vector-based systems with a large suite of ported application programs. As in the United States, commodity HPC suppliers can offer systems with significantly better peak/price performance. Periodic announcements by our competitors of new HPC systems or plans for future systems and price adjustments may reduce customer demand for our products. Many of our potential customers already own or lease very high performance computer systems. Some of our competitors may offer trade-in allowances or substantial discounts to potential customers, and engage in other aggressive pricing tactics, and we have not always been able to match these sales incentives. We have in the past and may again be required to provide substantial discounts to make strategic sales, which may reduce or eliminate any positive margin on such transactions, or to provide lease financing for our products, which could result in a deferral of our receipt of cash and revenue for these systems. These developments limit our revenue and resources and reduce our ability to be profitable. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerated product obsolescence and continuously evolving industry standards. Our success depends upon our ability to sell our current products, and to develop successor systems and enhancements in a timely manner to meet evolving customer requirements, which may be influenced by competitive offerings. We may not succeed in these efforts. Even if we succeed, products or 18 Table of Contents technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. A breakthrough in technology could make low bandwidth cluster systems even more attractive to our existing and potential customers. Such a breakthrough would impair our ability to sell our products and reduce our revenue and operating results. Phase III of the DARPA HPCS program will affect our operations. Our proposal for Phase III of the DARPA HPCS program was accepted on November 21, 2006, for the development of our Cascade project. This award calls for the delivery of prototype systems by late 2010, and provides for a contribution by DARPA to us of up to $250 million payable over approximately four years, assuming we meet ten milestones, of which to date we have met one. If we do not meet any of the remaining milestones, our cash flows would be adversely impacted and our product development programs would be at risk. DARPA’s future financial commitments are subject to subsequent Congressional action, and our Cascade development efforts would be adversely impacted if DARPA did not receive expected funding or decided to terminate the program before completion. We must contribute at least $125 million towards the project’s total development cost; failure to do so would result in a lower level of DARPA contribution and could result in a termination of the contract. This award likely will result in increased net research and development expenditures by us for the cost-sharing portion of the program and adversely affect our cash flow, particularly in the later years of the program. Our stock price is volatile. The stock market has been and is subject to price and volume fluctuations that particularly affect the market prices for small capitalization, high technology companies like us. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including our quarterly operating results (particularly if they are less than our or analysts’ previous estimates), changes in analysts’ estimates, our capital raising activities, announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors and general conditions in our industry. If we cannot retain, attract and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled management, technical, marketing, sales and service personnel. The loss of and failure to replace key engineering management and personnel could adversely affect multiple development efforts. Recruitment and retention of senior management and skilled technical, sales and other personnel is very competitive, and we may not be successful in either attracting or retaining such personnel. As part of our strategy to attract and retain personnel, we offer equity compensation through stock options and restricted stock grants. However, potential employees may not perceive our equity incentives as attractive, and current employees who have significant options with exercise prices significantly above current market values for our common stock may seek other employment. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses. Lower than anticipated sales of new supercomputers and the termination of maintenance contracts on older and/or decommissioned systems may reduce our service revenue and margins from maintenance service contracts. Our HPC systems are typically sold with maintenance service contracts. These contracts generally are for annual periods, although some are for multi-year periods, and provide a predictable revenue base. Our revenue from maintenance service contracts declined from approximately $95 million in 2000 to approximately $42 million in 2005 while increasing to approximately $50 million in 2006. We expect that 2007 maintenance service revenue may decline from this level. We may have periodic revenue and margin declines as our older, higher margin service contracts are ended and newer, lower margin contracts are established, based on the timing of system withdrawals from service. Adding service personnel to new locations when we win contracts where we have previously had no presence and servicing installed products if we discover defective components in the field create additional pressure on service margins. Expansion of our Technical Services efforts could reduce our service margins. We plan to expand our capabilities to deliver Cray Technical Services in 2007 through the addition of experienced managers and personnel and marketing of these services. These services usually are rendered on a project-by-project basis. To the extent that we incur additional expenses in this effort prior to receiving additional revenue, our service margins will be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents The adoption of FAS 123R has and will continue to adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have used share-based compensation, primarily stock options and an employee stock purchase plan, as a key component in our employee compensation. In previous years we granted stock options to each new employee and to all employees on an annual basis, and in 2005 we vested almost all existing stock options. For 2003 through 2005, as we have reported in the notes to our financial statements, we estimated that our stock option and employee stock purchase programs, as then structured, would have added approximately $7 million to $26 million of additional non-cash expense annually. These estimates were based on use of the Black-Scholes valuation method, which provides significantly different values depending on certain assumptions. Beginning in 2006, in light of the adoption of FAS 123R, we awarded option and stock awards to a limited number of new employees and granted options and restricted stock to less than a majority of employees, almost all with four-year vesting periods. We also changed the purchase price under our employee stock purchase plan to 95% of the closing market price on the fourth business day after the end of each offering period in order to designate the plan as noncompensatory, and thereby avoid expense which would have otherwise been incurred under FAS 123R. We recorded approximately $2.1 million as non-cash compensation expense in 2006 for stock options and restricted stock grants, and anticipate that this amount will increase in future years. We do not know how analysts and investors will react to the additional expense recorded in our statements of operations rather than disclosed in the notes thereto, and thus such additional expense may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may infringe or be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties in the past have asserted, and may in the future assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and such future claims, if proved, could require us to pay substantial damages or to redesign our existing products or pay fees to obtain cross-license agreements. Regardless of the merits, any claim of infringement would require management attention and could be expensive to defend. U.S. export controls could hinder our ability to make sales to foreign customers and our future prospects. The U.S. government regulates the export of HPC systems such as our products. Occasionally we have experienced delays for up to several months in receiving appropriate approvals necessary for certain sales, which have delayed the shipment of our products. Delay or denial in the granting of any required licenses could make it more difficult to make sales to foreign customers, eliminating an important source of potential revenue. We incorporate software licensed from third parties into the operating systems for our products and any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products or defects in these products could reduce the demand for our products. The operating system software we develop for our HPC systems contains components that are licensed to us under “open source” software licenses. Our business could be disrupted if this software, or functional equivalents of this software, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case we would be required to redesign our operating system software to function with alternate third-party software, or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in product shipments. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future operating system software offerings. Our Cray XT4 and successor systems utilize software system variants that incorporate Linux technology. The SCO Group, Inc. has filed and threatened to file lawsuits against companies that operate Linux for commercial purposes, alleging that such use of Linux infringes its rights. The open source licenses under which we have obtained certain components of our operating system software may not be enforceable. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that Linux-based operating systems, or significant portions of them, may not be copied, modified or distributed as provided in those licenses, would adversely affect our ability to sell our systems. In addition, as a result of concerns about this litigation and open source software generally, we may be forced to protect our customers from potential claims of infringement. In any such event, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We also incorporate proprietary software from third parties, such as for file systems, job scheduling and storage subsystems. We have experienced some functional issues in the past with implementing such software with our supercomputer systems. These issues, if repeated, may result in additional expense by us in integrating this software more fully and/or loss of customer confidence. 20 Table of Contents We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 at the end of each fiscal year, and any adverse results from such future evaluations could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such report must contain, among other items, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. We received favorable opinions from our independent registered public accounting firm and we reported no material weaknesses for 2005 and 2006, although we reported material weaknesses and received a disclaimed audit opinion for 2004. Each year, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting and determine whether we have any material weaknesses. Depending on their nature and severity, any future material weaknesses could result in our having to restate financial statements, could make it difficult or impossible for us to obtain an audit of our annual financial statements or could result in a qualification of any such audit. In such events, we could experience a number of adverse consequences, including our inability to comply with applicable reporting and listing requirements, a loss of market confidence in our publicly available information, delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market, loss of financing sources such as our line of credit, and litigation based on the events themselves or their consequences. Our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial strength. In December 2004 we sold $80.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 3.0% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2024 (the “Notes”). Holders may require us to purchase all or a part of their Notes for cash at a purchase price of 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest on December 1, 2009, 2014, and 2019, or upon the occurrence of certain events provided in the indenture governing the Notes. As of December 31, 2006, we had no other outstanding indebtedness for money borrowed and no material equipment lease obligations. We have a $25.0 million cash secured credit facility which supports the issuance of letters of credit and forward currency contracts. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $24.8 million available to borrow under this credit facility. Our current credit facility constitutes senior debt with respect to the Notes. We may incur additional indebtedness for money borrowed, which may include borrowing under new credit facilities or the issuance of new debt securities. Over time, the level of our indebtedness could, among other things: • increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions, including recessions; • require us to use cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other expenses; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, including merger and acquisition opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds that may be needed to operate and expand our business. We may not have the funds necessary to purchase the Notes upon a fundamental change or other purchase date and our ability to purchase the Notes in such events may be limited. On December 1, 2009, December 1, 2014 and December 1, 2019, holders of the Notes may require us to purchase their Notes for cash. In addition, holders may also require us to purchase their Notes upon a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes, which includes among other matters a change of control. Our ability to repurchase the Notes in such events may be limited by law and by the terms of other indebtedness, including the terms of senior indebtedness, we may have outstanding at the time of such events. While our existing credit facility does not prohibit us from repurchasing any of the Notes, any subsequent credit facility may include such a covenant or a requirement for prior written consent from the lender. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to repurchase the Notes tendered to us for purchase. If a repurchase event occurs, we may require third-party financing 21 Table of Contents to repurchase the Notes, but we may not be able to obtain that financing on favorable terms or at all. Our failure to repurchase tendered Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. In addition, a default under the indenture would constitute a default under our existing senior secured credit facility and could lead to defaults under other existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness. In these circumstances, the subordination provisions in the indenture governing the Notes may limit or prohibit payments to Note holders. If, due to a default, the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness or repurchase the Notes. We will require a significant amount of cash to repay our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate expenses. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the potential repurchase of the Notes in December 2009, and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate expenses will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund our other needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to enable us to pay our indebtedness, we may need to pursue one or more alternatives, such as reducing our operating expenses, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or research and development, selling assets, raising additional equity capital and/or debt, and seeking legal protection from our creditors. Any reduction in operating expenses, reduction or delay in capital expenditures, or sale of assets may materially and adversely affect our future revenue prospects. In addition, we may not be able to raise additional equity capital or debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any of the above actions may not provide sufficient cash to repay our indebtedness, including the Notes. In addition, our issuance of additional equity or debt that is convertible into equity could dilute our existing shareholders. New environmental rules in Europe and other jurisdictions may adversely affect our operations. In 2006 members of the European Union (“EU”) and certain other European countries have begun implementing the Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) Directive, which prohibits or limits the use in electrical and electronic equipment of the following substances: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls, and polybrominated diphenyl ethers. After July 1, 2006, a company shipping products that do not comply with RoHS to the EU or such other European countries could have its products detained and could be subject to penalties. We decided not to ship any Cray X1E or Cray XD1 systems to Europe after July 1, 2006, because of these restrictions, and we are working with our suppliers to assure RoHS compliance with respect to our other products. We believe we are RoHS-compliant with our Cray XT4 system which began shipping in the fourth quarter of 2006 and our Cray XMT and BlackWidow systems which we plan to ship for general availability in late 2007. If a regulatory authority determines that one of our products is not RoHS-compliant, we will have to redesign and requalify certain components to meet RoHS requirements, which could result in increased engineering expenses, shipment delays, penalties and possible product detentions or seizures. A separate EU Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) was scheduled to become effective in August 2005, but many EU member states have delayed its implementation. Under the WEEE Directive, companies that put electrical and electronic equipment on the EU market must register with individual member states, mark their products, submit annual reports, provide recyclers with information about product recycling, and either recycle their products or participate in or fund mandatory recycling schemes. In addition, some EU member states require recycling fees to be paid in advance to ensure funds are available for product recycling at the end of the product’s useful life or de-installation. We have begun to mark our products as required by the WEEE Directive and are registering with those EU member states where our products are sold. Each EU member state is responsible for implementing the WEEE Directive and some member states have not yet established WEEE registrars or established or endorsed the recycling schemes required by the WEEE Directive. We are monitoring implementation of the WEEE Directive by the member states. Compliance with the WEEE Directive could increase our costs and any failure to comply with the WEEE Directive could lead to monetary penalties. 22 Table of Contents Other jurisdictions are considering adoption of rules similar to the RoHS and WEEE regulations. To the extent that any such rules differ from the RoHS and WEEE regulations, they may result in additional expense for us to redesign and requalify our products, and may delay us from shipping products into such jurisdictions. We may not be able to protect our proprietary information and rights adequately. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret protection, nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish, protect and enforce our proprietary information and rights. We have a number of patents and have additional applications pending. There can be no assurance, however, that patents will be issued from the pending applications or that any issued patents will protect adequately those aspects of our technology to which such patents will relate. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that we will succeed in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Additionally, under certain conditions, the U.S. government might obtain non-exclusive rights to certain of our intellectual property. Although we continue to implement protective measures and intend to defend our proprietary rights vigorously, these efforts may not be successful. A substantial number of our shares are eligible for future sale and may depress the market price of our common stock and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding: • 32,236,888 shares of common stock; • 1,334,852 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants; • 3,867,415 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options, of which options to purchase 3,144,887 shares of common stock were then exercisable; and • Notes convertible into an aggregate of 4,144,008 shares of common stock or, under certain circumstances specified in the indenture governing the Notes, a maximum of 5,698,006 shares of common stock. Almost all of our outstanding shares of common stock may be sold without substantial restrictions, with certain exceptions including 846,243 shares held by Board members, executive officers and key managers that may be forfeited and are restricted against transfer until vested. In addition, an aggregate of 684,729 shares beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors are subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters in connection with our December 2006 public offering and cannot be sold in the public market until March 14, 2007, which may be extended up to 18 days in certain events. Almost all of the shares of common stock that may be issued on exercise of the warrants and options will be available for sale in the public market when issued, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. The warrants outstanding at December 31, 2006, consisted of warrants to purchase 50,000 shares of common stock, with an exercise price of $6.60 per share, which has since been exercised in full, and warrants to purchase 1,284,852 shares of common stock, with an exercise price of $10.12 per share, expiring on June 21, 2009. The Notes are not now convertible, and only become convertible upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the indenture governing the Notes. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our common stock, including sales of common stock issuable upon the exercise or conversion of warrants, options and Notes, may depress prevailing market prices for the common stock. Even the perception that sales could occur may impact market prices adversely. The existence of outstanding warrants, options and Notes may prove to be a hindrance to our future financings. Further, the holders of warrants, options and Notes may exercise or convert them for shares of common stock at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Such factors could impair our ability to meet our capital needs. We also have authorized 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, although no shares of preferred stock currently are outstanding. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make a proposed acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors more difficult. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that 23 Table of Contents investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. For example, our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for: • removal of a director only in limited circumstances and only upon the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote to elect directors; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock, without shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • no cumulative voting of shares; • the right of shareholders to call a special meeting of the shareholders only upon demand by the holders of not less than 30% of the shares entitled to vote at such a meeting; • the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on an amendment, unless the amendment was approved by a majority of our continuing directors, who are defined as directors who have either served as a director since August 31, 1995, or were nominated to be a director by the continuing directors; • special voting requirements for mergers and other business combinations, unless the proposed transaction was approved by a majority of continuing directors; • special procedures to bring matters before our shareholders at our annual shareholders’ meeting; and • special procedures to nominate members for election to our board of directors. These provisions could delay, defer or prevent a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business transaction between us and a third party that is not approved by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 