Item 1A. Risk Factors The following describes certain of the risks and uncertainties we face that could cause our future results to differ materially from our current results and from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements. These risk factors should be considered together with the other risks and uncertainties described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere herein. The cyclical nature of the aluminum industry causes variability in our earnings and cash flows; our hedging transactions may limit our ability to benefit from increased aluminum prices which are currently near historical highs. Our operating results depend on the market for primary aluminum, which is a highly cyclical commodity with prices that are affected by global demand and supply factors and other conditions. Historically, aluminum prices have been volatile and we expect such volatility to continue. Currently, we are experiencing favorable global economic conditions and continued strong demand in China and other developing regions. Although we use contractual arrangements to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the commodity price, a decline in primary aluminum prices would reduce our earnings and cash flows. Any significant downturn in prices for primary aluminum would significantly reduce the amount of cash available to meet our current obligations and fund our long-term business strategies and may force the curtailment of all or a portion of our operations at one or more of our facilities. - 13 - - Table of Contents Conversely, as prices for aluminum increase, certain of our hedging transactions, including our forward sales of primary aluminum and our LME-based alumina and power contracts, limit our ability to take advantage of these increased prices. More information about Century's market risks is available in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We sell molten aluminum to the major customers of Ravenswood and Hawesville; the loss of one of these major customers would increase our production costs at those facilities and could increase our sales and marketing costs. Approximately 45% of our consolidated net sales for 2007 were derived from sales to Alcan and Southwire. Alcan’s facility is located adjacent to Ravenswood and Southwire’s facility is located adjacent to Hawesville. Due to this proximity, we are able to deliver molten aluminum to these customers, thereby eliminating our casting and shipping costs and our customers’ freight and remelting costs and reducing our sales and marketing costs. Century has contracts with Alcan and Southwire which are due to expire in August 2009 and March 2011, respectively. We may be unable to extend or replace these contracts when they terminate. If we are unable to renew these contracts when they expire, or if either customer significantly reduces its purchases under those contracts, we would incur higher casting and shipping costs and potentially higher sales and marketing costs. A material change in our relationship with Glencore could affect how we hedge our exposure to metal price risk. We benefit from our relationship with Glencore, our largest shareholder. Prior to our initial public offering in April 1996, we were an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Glencore. As of January 31, 2008, Glencore owned approximately 28.5% of our outstanding common stock. We enter into forward sales and hedging contracts with Glencore that help us manage our exposure to fluctuating aluminum prices. Because Glencore is our sole metal hedge counterparty, a material change in our relationship with Glencore could affect how we hedge our exposure to metal price risk, which could impact our results of operations. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of power would reduce the profitability of our operations. We use large amounts of electricity to produce primary aluminum. Any loss of power which reduces the amperage to our equipment or causes an equipment shutdown would result in a reduction in the volume of molten aluminum produced and may result in the hardening or “freezing” of molten aluminum in the pots where it is produced. Interruptions in the supply of electrical power to our facilities can be caused by a number of circumstances, including unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment failure, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. If such a condition were to occur, we may lose production for a prolonged period of time and incur significant losses. We maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, but are required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, the coverage under those policies may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not cover certain events. Certain of our insurance policies do not cover any losses that may be incurred if our suppliers are unable to provide power during periods of unusually high demand. Certain losses or prolonged interruptions in our operations may trigger a default under our revolving credit facility. The cost of alumina used at Hawesville may be higher than under our LME-based alumina contracts. We acquire alumina used at Ravenswood and Mt. Holly at prices based on the LME price for primary aluminum. Gramercy supplies substantially all of the alumina used at Hawesville at prices based on Gramercy’s production costs. Those production costs could be materially higher than the price paid under LME-based contracts during periods when aluminum prices are low and raw material and energy costs used in the production of alumina, such as natural gas, are high. - 14 - - Table of Contents Changes or disruptions to our current alumina and other raw material supply arrangements could increase our raw material costs. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for alumina. Disruptions to our supply of alumina could occur for a variety of reasons, including disruptions of production at a particular supplier’s alumina refinery. These disruptions may require Century to purchase alumina on the spot market on less favorable terms than under our current agreements. Gramercy supplies substantially all the alumina used at Hawesville. Our joint venture bauxite mining operation in St. Ann, Jamaica supplies all of the bauxite used in the production of alumina at Gramercy. If there is a significant disruption of St. Ann bauxite shipments in the future, Gramercy could incur additional costs if it is required to use bauxite from other sources. Production shortfalls at Gramercy during 2007 required spot purchases of alumina to support Hawesville’s operations which increased our cost of goods sold in 2007. Our business also depends upon the adequate supply of other raw materials, including caustic soda, aluminum fluoride, calcined petroleum coke, pitch, finished carbon anodes and cathodes, at competitive prices. Although there remain multiple sources for these raw materials worldwide, consolidation among suppliers has globally reduced the number of available suppliers in this industry. A disruption in our raw materials supply from our existing suppliers due to a labor dispute, shortage of their raw materials or other unforeseen factors may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to secure alternate supplies of these materials at comparable prices. Changes in the relative cost and availability of certain raw materials and energy compared to the price of primary aluminum could affect our operating results. Our operating results vary significantly with changes in the price of primary aluminum and the raw materials used in its production, including alumina, caustic soda, aluminum fluoride, calcined petroleum coke, pitch, and cathodes. Because we sell our products based on the LME price for primary aluminum, we cannot pass on increased costs to our customers. Although we attempt to mitigate the effects of price fluctuations through the use of various fixed-price commitments and financial instruments and by pricing some of our raw materials and energy contracts based on LME prices, these efforts also limit our ability to take advantage of favorable changes in the market prices for primary aluminum or raw materials. In addition, because we have sold forward a certain amount of our production capacity in future years, rising raw material and energy prices would negatively impact our earnings and cash flow. See “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Electricity represents our single largest operating cost. As a result, the availability of electricity at economic prices is critical to the profitability of our operations. We purchase virtually all of our electricity for our U.S. facilities under fixed-price contracts. Portions of the contracted cost of the electricity supplied to Mt. Holly vary with the supplier’s fuel costs. An increase in these fuel costs would increase the price this facility pays for electricity. Approximately five percent of Hawesville’s power requirements for the first six months of 2008 and 27% for the balance of 2008 through 2010 remain unpriced. The profitability of Hawesville could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain power for the unpriced portions of Hawesville’s power requirements at economic rates. We are working with a local power company on a proposal that would restructure and extend Hawesville’s existing power supply contract through 2023. If we are not successful in replacing such power requirements, we may be forced to curtail or idle a portion of our production capacity, which would lower our revenues and adversely affect the profitability of our operations. At Ravenswood, power prices have some variability based upon the LME price for primary aluminum and are subject to possible adjustments in the published tariff. An agreement was reached in a tariff rate case pending before the West Virginia Public Service Commission, or PSC, which increased the special contract rate for Ravenswood by approximately 10% effective July 1, 2007. Other possible future rate cases could lead to a further increase in the price that Ravenswood pays for electricity and thereby decrease profit margins. Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at our facilities, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, unplanned power outages, supply disruptions, or equipment failures, may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise disrupt our operations. - 15 - - Table of Contents We are subject to the risk of union disputes. The bargaining unit employees at Ravenswood and Hawesville and at the Gramercy refinery are represented by the USWA. Century’s USWA labor contracts at Ravenswood, Hawesville and the labor contract at Gramercy expire in May 2009, March 2010 and September 2010, respectively. Our bargaining unit employees at Grundartangi are represented by five unions under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on December 31, 2009. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with any labor union representing our employees, our labor contracts may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of these facilities in the future. Any threatened or actual work stoppage in the future could prevent or significantly impair our ability to conduct production operations at our unionized facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations that could result in costs or liabilities. We are obligated to comply with various federal, state and other environmental laws and regulations, including the environmental laws and regulations of the United States, Iceland, the EU and Jamaica. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to costs or liabilities relating to our manufacturing operations or property ownership. We incur operating costs and capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we are currently and may in the future be responsible for the cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former facilities or for the amelioration of damage to natural resources. We, along with others, including current and former owners of a facility on St. Croix in the Virgin Islands, formerly owned by a subsidiary of ours, have been sued for alleged natural resources damages at the facility. In addition, in December 2006, Century and the company that purchased the assets of our St. Croix facility in 1995 were sued by the Commissioner of the U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Planning and Natural Resources alleging our failure to take certain actions specified in a Virgin Islands Coastal Zone management permit issued to our subsidiary, Virgin Island Alumina Corporation LLC, in October 1994. In July 2006, Century was named as a defendant together with certain affiliates of Alcan Inc. in a lawsuit brought by Alcoa Inc. seeking to determine responsibility for certain environmental indemnity obligations related to the sale of a cast aluminum plate manufacturing facility located in Vernon, California, which we purchased from Alcoa Inc. in December 1998, and sold to Alcan Rolled Products-Ravenswood LLC in July 1999. Our known liabilities with respect to these and other matters relating to environmental compliance and cleanup, based on current information, are not expected to be material. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, previously unknown environmental conditions or damages to natural resources are discovered or alleged, or if contributions from other responsible parties with respect to sites for which we have cleanup responsibilities are not available, we may be subject to additional liability, which may be material and could affect our liquidity and our operating results. Further, additional environmental matters for which we may be liable may arise in the future at our present sites where no problem is currently known, with respect to sites previously owned or operated by us, by related corporate entities or by our predecessors, or at sites that we may acquire in the future. In addition, overall production costs may become prohibitively expensive and prevent us from effectively competing in price sensitive markets if future capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance or cleanup are significantly greater than current or projected expenditures and costs. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Environmental Contingencies” and Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements herein for additional information regarding our environmental matters and associated costs and risks. Acquisitions may present difficulties. We have a history of making acquisitions and we expect to make acquisitions in the future. We are subject to numerous risks as a result of our acquisitions, including the following: · it may be challenging for us to manage our existing business as we integrate acquired operations; · we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions; and · management of acquisitions will require continued development of financial controls and information systems, which may prove to be expensive, time-consuming, and difficult to maintain. Accordingly, our past or future acquisitions might not ultimately improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated. - 16 - - Table of Contents International operations expose us to political, regulatory, currency and other related risks. Grundartangi, in Iceland, was our first facility located outside of the United States and it represents approximately 33% of our overall primary aluminum production capacity. In addition, we intend to construct an aluminum smelter near Helguvik, Iceland. The St. Ann bauxite operations related to the Gramercy plant are located in Jamaica. International operations expose us to risks, including unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations, political and economic instability, challenges in managing foreign operations, increased cost to adapt our systems and practices to those used in foreign countries, export duties, tariffs and other trade barriers, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. In addition, we may be exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and, as a result, an increase in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could increase our operating expenses which are denominated and payable in those currencies. Nordural’s revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, while its labor costs are denominated in Icelandic krona and a portion of its anode costs are denominated in euros. As we continue to explore other opportunities outside the U.S. and construct the proposed Helguvik facility, our currency risk with respect to the Icelandic krona and other foreign currencies will significantly increase. The influence of China may negatively impact our results in the event of a slowdown in consumption. The Chinese market has become a significant source of global demand for primary aluminum. China now represents in excess of 25 percent of aluminum demand. China’s demand for aluminum has more than doubled in the last five years. Consequently, in response to its increased demand for commodities, China is increasingly seeking self-sufficiency in key commodities, including investments in additional developments in other countries. These investments may impact future demand and supply balances and prices. Our historical financial information may not be comparable to our results for future periods. Our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For example, certain of our historical financial data do not reflect the effects of: • the 130,000 mtpy expansion capacity of Grundartangi that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2006; and • the 40,000 mtpy expansion capacity of Grundartangi that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2007. Our level of indebtedness requires significant cash flow to meet our debt service requirements, which reduces cash available for other purposes, such as the payment of dividends, and limits our ability to pursue our growth strategy. We had an aggregate of approximately $432.8 million of outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we could borrow additional amounts under our $100 million credit facility, and we expect to incur additional indebtedness to finance the proposed Helguvik project. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting cash flow available for capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, working capital and other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competitive and other changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. - 17 - - Table of Contents We will be required to settle in cash up to the principal amount of our $175 million convertible notes (which are convertible by the holder at any time) upon conversion, which could increase our debt service obligations. In addition to our indebtedness, we have liabilities and other obligations which could reduce cash available for other purposes and could limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy. More information about our liquidity and debt service obligations is set forth under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” included herein. We are also exposed to risks of interest rate increases. Our industrial revenue bonds (“IRBs”) and any borrowings on our credit facility would be at variable interest rates. Future borrowing required to fund the construction of the proposed Helguvik facility may be at variable rates. An increase in the interest rates would increase our debt service obligations under these instruments, further limiting cash flow available for other uses. Our ability to pay interest and to repay or refinance our indebtedness, including our senior unsecured notes and convertible notes and to satisfy other commitments, will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, including market prices for primary aluminum, that are beyond our control. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could attempt to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital. There can be no assurance that we would be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms. Restrictive covenants in our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes limit our ability to incur additional debt and pursue our growth strategy. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes each contain various covenants that restrict the way we conduct our business and limit our ability to incur debt, pay dividends and engage in transactions such as acquisitions and investments, which may impair our ability to pursue our growth strategy. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Any failure to comply with those covenants may constitute a breach under the revolving credit facility or the indenture governing the notes, which may result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness and termination of commitments under our revolving credit facility. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may be unable to repay the required amounts and our secured lenders could foreclose on any collateral securing our secured debt. Further consolidation within the metals industry could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. The metals industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years and there may be more consolidation transactions in the future. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity and their access to resources, lower their cost structure and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Continued consolidation may limit our ability to implement our strategic objectives effectively. We cannot reliably predict the impact on us of further consolidation in the metals industry. The proposed Helguvik project is subject to certain conditions and risks. We intend to use the net proceeds from our June 2007 equity offering primarily as part of the funding for the construction of a greenfield aluminum smelter near Helguvik, Iceland. In June 2007, we used a portion of the net proceeds from the equity offering to prepay $200 million of principal of the Nordural senior term loan facility, which is expected to increase our borrowing capacity to secure financing for the Helguvik project. This project is subject to various Icelandic regulatory and other approvals and conditions. Recently, there has been increasing opposition among some voters in Iceland to the construction of new aluminum smelters and the further development of heavy industry in general. There can be no assurance that we will receive the necessary approvals to proceed with construction of our proposed Helguvik smelter, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, such approvals as we do receive may be subject to conditions that are unfavorable or make the project impracticable or less attractive from a financial standpoint. Even if we receive necessary approvals on terms that we determine are acceptable, the construction of this project is a complex undertaking. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the project within our projected budget and schedule. In addition, unforeseen technical difficulties could increase the cost of the project, delay the project or render the project not feasible. Any delay in the completion of the project or increased costs could have a material negative impact on our financial performance and future prospects. To successfully execute this project, we will also need to arrange additional financing and either enter into tolling arrangements or secure a supply of alumina. - 18 - - Table of Contents If we are unable to procure a reliable source of power, the proposed Helguvik project would not be feasible. Our proposed greenfield smelter near Helguvik, Iceland will require generation and transmission of geothermally-generated electricity to power the smelter. Our wholly-owned Iceland subsidiary, Nordural Helguvik sf, has entered into agreements with two providers of geothermal power in Iceland for a substantial portion of this power. These two power company agreements are subject to certain conditions, some of which are not expected to be satisfied until the fourth quarter of 2008. These conditions include approvals by the boards of directors of the power companies, as well as environmental agency approvals. Generation of the electrical power contracted for the proposed Helguvik smelter will require successful development of new geothermal energy sources within designated areas in Iceland. If there are construction delays or technical difficulties in developing these new geothermal fields, power may be delayed or may not be available. Factors which could delay or impede the generation and delivery of electric power are substantially beyond our ability to control, influence or predict. In October 2007, Nordural Helguvik signed a transmission agreement with Landsnet to provide an electrical power transmission system to the proposed Helguvik smelter. Reductions in the duty on primary aluminum imports into the European Union decrease our revenues at Grundartangi. Grundartangi’s tolling revenues include a premium based on the EU import duty for primary aluminum. In May 2007, the EU members reduced the import duty for primary aluminum from six percent to three percent and agreed to review the new duty after three years. This decrease in the EU import duty for primary aluminum negatively impacts Grundartangi’s revenues and further decreases would also have a negative impact on Grundartangi’s revenues. We depend upon intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends upon the receipt of intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries. Subject to the restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior and convertible notes, future borrowings by our subsidiaries could contain restrictions or prohibitions on the intercompany transfers by those subsidiaries. In addition, under applicable law, our subsidiaries could be limited in the amounts that they are permitted to pay as dividends on their capital stock. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility from time to time, and this volatility may continue in the future. From January 1, 2006, through February 15, 2008, the intra-day sales price of our common stock on NASDAQ ranged from $26.14 to $67.85 per share. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations, expectations about the future price of aluminum, changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, changes in research coverage by securities analysts, any announcement by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, developments in the aluminum industry, including with respect to our major competitors, and sales of substantial numbers of shares by current holders of our common stock in the public market. In addition, general economic, political and market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance may cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile. - 19 - - Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and state law may make it difficult for others to obtain control of Century Aluminum, even though some stockholders may consider them to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Century, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise have received a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, these provisions: • give authority to our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any stockholder vote; • provide, under our charter documents, for a board of directors consisting of three classes, each of which serves for a different three-year term; • require stockholders to give advance notice prior to submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders' meetings or to nominate persons for election as directors; and • restrict, under our charter documents, certain business combinations between us and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, several of our officers have entered into employment and severance compensation agreements that provide for cash payments, immediate vesting of stock options and performance shares and acceleration of other benefits under certain circumstances, including a change in control of Century. Our 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, also provides for acceleration of the ability to exercise stock options and the vesting of performance shares upon a change in control, and our Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan provides for acceleration of an option holder's ability to exercise stock options upon a change in control. This list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 