1A Risk Factors 12 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2 Properties 25 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 25 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 28 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 45 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 101 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 101 Item 9B Other Information 101 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 102 Item 11 Executive Compensation 102 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 102 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 102 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 102 PART IV Item 15 Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 103 Signatures 108 Table of Contents PART I Throughout this Form 10-K, and unless expressly stated otherwise or as the context otherwise requires, "Century Aluminum Company," "Century Aluminum," "Century," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Century Aluminum Company and its subsidiaries. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on current expectations and projections about future events. Many of these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “believes,” “projects,” “estimates,” “intends,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “will,” “scheduled,” “potential” and similar words. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions including, among other things, those discussed under Item 1, “Business,” Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” including further declines in the price of aluminum, additional curtailment of certain of our operations, the possible need for alternate liquidity sources, the continuation or worsening of global financial and economic conditions, our ability to access the credit and capital markets, further reductions in our selling, general and administrative expenses, our ability to meet pension funding obligations, deterioration of economic and political conditions in Iceland, further volatility in our stock price, our planned construction and development activities, including our Helguvik site, debt servicing requirements, year-end and possible future asset write downs, changes in our credit ratings, costs to curtail unprofitable operations, our ability to close a new long-term power contract at Hawesville and receipt of federal tax refunds. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected, estimated or projected. The risks described herein in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” should be considered when reading any forward-looking statements in this document. We believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, based on information available to us on the date of this Form 10-K. However, given the described uncertainties and risks, we cannot guarantee our future performance or results of operations, and you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law, you are advised to consult any additional disclosures we make in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, annual report on Form 10-K and current reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. See Item 1, “Business - Available Information.” Item 1. Business Overview We produce primary aluminum. Aluminum is an internationally traded commodity, and its price is effectively determined on the London Metal Exchange (“LME”). Our primary aluminum facilities produce value-added and standard-grade primary aluminum products. In 2004, we acquired Grundartangi, an Icelandic primary aluminum facility which became our first production facility located outside of the United States. We produced approximately 804,000 metric tons of primary aluminum in 2008 with net sales of approximately $2.0 billion. Our current primary aluminum production capacity is 785,000 metric tons per year (“mtpy”). We have begun construction on a primary aluminum facility in Helguvik, Iceland and have curtailed operations at our Ravenswood, West Virginia facility. We are currently evaluating the Helguvik project’s cost, scope and schedule in light of global economic conditions and weakening commodity prices. During the evaluation, we have significantly reduced spending on the project. - 1 - - Table of Contents In addition to our primary aluminum assets, we have 50% joint venture interests in the Gramercy alumina refinery, located in Gramercy, Louisiana and a related bauxite mining operation in Jamaica and a 40% stake in Baise Haohai Carbon Co., Ltd. (“BHH”), a carbon anode and cathode facility located in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of south China. The Gramercy refinery supplies substantially all of the alumina used for the production of primary aluminum at our Hawesville, Kentucky facility, assuming Gramercy and Hawesville operate at full capacity. The BHH facility has annual anode production capacity of 180,000 metric tons and an annual cathode production capacity of 20,000 metric tons and supplies a portion of the anodes used in our Grundartangi facility. Primary Aluminum Facilities: Facility Location Operational Capacity (mtpy) Ownership Percent Grundartangi Grundartangi, Iceland 1998 260,000 100% Hawesville Hawesville, Kentucky, USA 1970 244,000 100% Ravenswood(1) Ravenswood, West Virginia, USA 1957 170,000 100% Mt. Holly (2) Mt. Holly, South Carolina, USA 1980 224,000 49.7% (1) On February 20, 2009, we curtailed all operations at the Ravenswood facility until economic conditions warrant the possibility of restarting. (2) Alcoa holds the remaining 50.3% ownership interest and is the operator. Century’s share of Mt. Holly’s capacity is approximately 111,000 mtpy. Joint Venture Facilities: Facility Location Type Capacity Ownership Percent Gramercy (1) Gramercy, Louisiana, USA Alumina refinery 1.2 million mtpy 50% St. Ann Limited (2) St. Ann, Jamaica Bauxite 4.5 million mtpy 50% Baise Haohai Carbon Co., Ltd (3) Guangxi Zhuang, China Carbon anode and cathode 180,000 mtpy anode; 20,000 mtpy cathode 40% (1) Gramercy is currently operating at a reduced capacity of 700,000 mtpy. (2) The Government of Jamaica has granted St. Ann Bauxite Limited (“SABL”) rights to mine 4.5 million dry metric tons of bauxite on specified lands annually through September 30, 2030. (3) BHH is currently operating at 50% of its rated capacity due to the reduced operations of its main customer in China. Our long-term strategic objectives are to: (i) expand our primary aluminum business by investing in or acquiring additional capacity that offers favorable returns and lowers our per unit production costs; (ii) further diversify our geographic presence; and, (iii) pursue upstream opportunities in bauxite mining, alumina refining and the production of other key raw materials. The following table shows our primary aluminum shipment volumes since 2004. - 2 - - Table of Contents PRIMARY ALUMINUM SHIPMENTS (in thousands of metric tons): Shipments from U.S. Operations Shipments from Iceland Operations TOTAL 2004 535 63 598 2005 523 93 616 2006 523 157 680 2007 532 235 767 2008 532 272 804 Since 2004, our growth activities have included: ● acquiring the Grundartangi facility (“Grundartangi”) in April 2004; ● acquiring a 50% joint venture in the Gramercy facility (“Gramercy”), our first alumina refining facility, together with related bauxite mining assets in October 2004, and; ● expanding Grundartangi’s production capacity to 260,000 mtpy of primary aluminum (from 90,000 mtpy at the time of our acquisition), and; ● acquiring a 40% joint venture in the Baise Haohai Carbon Co. Ltd., a carbon anode and cathode facility and our first investment in China in April 2008. Recent Developments Information on our recent developments is available in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. Competition The market for primary aluminum is global, and demand for aluminum varies widely from region to region. We compete with U.S. and international companies in the aluminum industry primarily in the areas of price, quality and service. In addition, aluminum competes with materials such as steel, copper, carbon fiber, composites, plastic and glass, which may be substituted for aluminum in certain applications. Our Hawesville and Ravenswood plants are each located adjacent to their largest customer. This location allows the plants to deliver a portion of their production in molten form, at a cost savings to both parties, providing a competitive advantage over other potential suppliers. Our Hawesville plant also has a competitive advantage due to its ability to produce the high purity aluminum needed by its largest customer for the manufacture of electrical transmission lines. On February 20, 2009, we curtailed all operations at the Ravenswood facility until economic conditions warrant the possibility of restarting. - 3 - - Table of Contents Customer Base In 2008, we derived approximately 76% of our consolidated sales from our four major customers: Southwire, Alcan, Glencore and BHP Billiton. Additional information about the revenues and percentage of sales to these major customers is available in Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. We currently have primary aluminum sales or tolling contracts with each of these customers. More information about these contracts is available under “Long-term Primary Aluminum Sales Contracts” in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate in one reportable segment, primary aluminum. Additional information about our primary aluminum segment and certain geographic information is available in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. For a description of certain risks attendant to our operations, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Energy, Key Supplies and Raw Materials We consume the following key supplies and raw materials in the primary aluminum reduction process: ● electricity ● carbon anodes ● silicon carbide ● alumina ● cathode blocks ● caustic soda ● aluminum fluoride ● liquid pitch ● calcined petroleum coke ● natural gas Electrical power, alumina, carbon anodes and labor are the principal components of cost of goods sold. These components together represented over 75% of our 2008 cost of goods sold. We have long-term contracts to attempt to ensure the future availability of many of our cost components. For a description of certain risks attendant to our raw material supplies and labor, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Key Long-term Supply Contracts Alumina Supply Agreements A summary of our alumina supply agreements is provided below. Grundartangi does not have alumina supply agreements because this facility tolls alumina provided by BHP Billiton, Hydro and Glencore into primary aluminum. Facility Supplier Term Pricing Mt. Holly Trafigura Through December 31, 2013 Variable, LME-based Hawesville Gramercy Alumina Through December 31, 2010 Variable, Cost-based Ravenswood (1) Glencore Through December 31, 2009 Variable, LME-based Various Glencore January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2014 Variable, LME-based (1) If we are unable to use the contracted alumina in our other operations or sell the alumina at prices consistent with our contract costs, we could incur significant losses under these contracts. As a result of the Ravenswood curtailment, we expect to incur cash losses of approximately $15 to $20 million in 2009 associated with the sale of excess alumina that will be received under this alumina supply agreement. This estimate is based on current alumina contract pricing which is indexed to LME prices for primary aluminum, our estimate of spot alumina prices and the forecasted internal use of a portion of this material in our other smelting operations. - 4 - - Table of Contents Electrical Power Supply Agreements We use significant amounts of electricity in the aluminum production process. In addition to the contracts listed below, we have entered into long-term power supply agreements to supply power for the Helguvik project. These contracts, described in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, are subject to various conditions. A summary of our long-term power supply agreements is provided below. Facility Supplier Term Pricing Ravenswood (1)(2) Appalachian Power Company Through June 30, 2009 Based on published tariff, with provisions for pricing based on the LME price for primary aluminum Mt. Holly South Carolina Public Service Authority Through December 31, 2015 Fixed price, with fuel cost adjustment clause through 2010; subject to a new fixed price schedule after 2010 Hawesville (3) Kenergy Through December 31, 2010 Fixed price through 2010 Grundartangi Landsvirkjun Through 2019 - 2029 Variable rate based on the LME price for primary aluminum Orkuveita Reykjavíkur HS Orka hf. (1) On February 20, 2009, we curtailed all operations at the Ravenswood facility until economic conditions warrant the possibility of restarting. Appalachian Power supplies all of Ravenswood’s power requirements. We will be subject to minimum demand charges associated with this contract and these costs are included in our curtailment costs, see the Note 26 Subsequent Events in the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for additional information. Effective July 28, 2006, the Public Service Commission of the State of West Virginia approved an experimental rate design in connection with an increase in the applicable tariff rates. Under the experimental rate, Ravenswood may be excused from or may defer the payment of the increase in the tariff rate if aluminum prices as quoted on the LME fall below pre-determined levels. The experimental rate design is effective through June 30, 2009. (2) This contract contains LME-based pricing provisions that are an embedded derivative. The embedded derivative does not qualify for cash flow hedge treatment and is marked to market quarterly. Gains and losses on the embedded derivative are included in Net gain (loss) on forward contracts in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. (3) Under this contract, approximately 70% (339 MW) of Hawesville’s power requirements are at fixed prices. We continuously review our options to manage the balance, or 30%, of this power and price the remaining power when we believe the combination of price and term is appropriate. We are working with Big Rivers Electric Corporation (“Big Rivers”) and Kenergy on a proposal that would restructure and extend this contract. The proposed new long-term power contract was filed with the Kentucky Public Service Commission in late December 2008. The contract would provide all of Hawesville’s power requirements through 2023 at cost-based pricing. The parties involved expect the transaction to close in the second quarter of 2009. Labor Agreements Our labor costs at Ravenswood and Hawesville are subject to the terms of labor contracts with the United Steelworkers of America (“USWA”) which generally have provisions for annual fixed increases in hourly wages and benefits adjustments. The five labor unions represented at Grundartangi operate under a labor contract that establishes wages and work rules for covered employees. The employees at Mt. Holly are employed by Alcoa and are not unionized. A summary of key labor agreements is provided below. - 5 - - Table of Contents Facility Organization Term Hawesville USWA Through March 31, 2010 Ravenswood USWA Through May 31, 2009 Grundartangi Icelandic labor unions Through December 31, 2009 Gramercy USWA Through September 30, 2010 St. Ann (1) Jamaican labor unions Through April 30, 2007 and December 31, 2010 (1) St. Ann has two labor unions, the University and Allied Workers Union (the “UAWU”) and the Union of Technical and Supervisory Personnel (the “UTASP”). We signed a contract with the UTASP in December 2008; the contract term is through December 31, 2010. Contracts with the UAWU expired on April 30, 2007. We are currently in arbitration for the UAWU contract and expect a decision in expected in the second quarter of 2009. There has been no change in mine operations and none is expected. We expect any contract changes will be applied retroactively to the expiration date. Pricing Our operating results are sensitive to changes in the price of primary aluminum, power and the raw materials used in its production. As a result, we try to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in primary aluminum, power and raw material prices through the use of various fixed-price commitments and financial instruments. We offer a number of pricing alternatives to our customers which, combined with our metals risk management activities, are designed to achieve a certain level of price stability on our primary aluminum sales. Generally, we price our products at an indexed or “market” price, in which the customer pays an agreed-upon premium over the LME price or other market indices. Grundartangi derives substantially all of its revenues from tolling arrangements whereby it converts alumina provided by its customers into primary aluminum for a fee based on the LME price for primary aluminum. Grundartangi's revenues are subject to market price risk associated with the LME price for primary aluminum; however, because its tolling revenues are based on a percentage of the LME price. Grundartangi is not directly exposed to fluctuations in the price of alumina. Grundartangi’s tolling revenues include a premium based on the European Union (“EU”) import duty for primary aluminum. In May 2007, the EU members reduced the import duty for primary aluminum from six percent to three percent and agreed to review the new duty after three years. This decrease in the EU import duty for primary aluminum negatively impacted Grundartangi’s revenues and further decreases would also have a negative impact on Grundartangi’s revenues. Primary Aluminum Facilities Grundartangi The Grundartangi facility located in Grundartangi, Iceland, is owned and operated by our subsidiary, Nordural Grundartangi ehf. Grundartangi is our most modern and lowest cost facility. Operations began in 1998 and production capacity was expanded in 2001, 2006 and 2007. The facility has a production capacity of 260,000 mtpy. - 6 - - Table of Contents Grundartangi operates under various long-term agreements with the Government of Iceland, local municipalities, and Faxafloahafnir sf (which operates the harbor at Grundartangi and is jointly owned by several municipalities). These agreements include: (i) an investment agreement which establishes Grundartangi's tax status and the Government's obligations to grant certain permits; (ii) a reduction plant site agreement by which Grundartangi leases the property through 2020, subject to renewal at its option; and (iii) a harbor agreement by which Grundartangi is granted access to the port at Grundartangi. Tolling Agreements. Grundartangi has long-term tolling agreements for all of its production capacity with BHP Billiton, Glencore and Hydro. The tolling counterparties provide alumina and receive primary aluminum in return for tolling fees that are based on the LME price of primary aluminum. See Note 18 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about these agreements. Power. Grundartangi purchases power from Landsvirkjun (a power company jointly owned by the Republic of Iceland), HS Orka hf and Orkuveita Reykjavíkur (“OR”) under various long-term contracts due to expire between 2019 and 2029. The power delivered to Grundartangi is priced at a rate based on the LME price for primary aluminum and is produced from hydroelectric and geothermal sources. Employees. Our employees at Grundartangi are represented by five labor unions that operate under a labor contract that establishes wages and work rules for covered employees for the period through December 31, 2009. Hawesville Hawesville is owned by our subsidiary, Century Kentucky, Inc. Hawesville is located adjacent to the Ohio River near Hawesville, Kentucky and began operations in 1970. Hawesville has five reduction potlines with an annual rated production capacity of 244,000 metric tons. Four of Hawesville's potlines are specially configured and operated to produce high purity primary aluminum and have an annual production capacity of approximately 195,000 metric tons. The average purity level of primary aluminum produced by these potlines is 99.9%, compared to standard-purity aluminum which is approximately 99.7%. High purity primary aluminum is sold at a premium to standard-purity aluminum. The high purity primary aluminum provides the conductivity required by Hawesville’s largest customer, Southwire, for its electrical wire and cable products as well as for certain aerospace applications. A fifth potline has an annual capacity of approximately 49,000 metric tons of standard-purity aluminum. Metal Sales Agreement. Hawesville has a long-term aluminum sales contract with Southwire (the “Southwire Metal Agreement”). The Southwire Metal Agreement expires March 31, 2011, subject to automatic renewal for additional five-year terms, unless either party provides 12 months’ notice that it has elected not to renew. The price for the molten aluminum delivered to Southwire is variable and is determined by reference to the U.S. Midwest Market Price. Under the contract, Hawesville supplies 240 million pounds (approximately 109,000 metric tons) of high-conductivity molten aluminum annually to Southwire’s adjacent wire and cable manufacturing facility. Under this contract, Southwire will also purchase 60 million pounds (approximately 27,000 metric tons) of standard-grade molten aluminum each year through December 2010. Southwire has an option to purchase an equal amount of standard-grade molten aluminum in 2011. Alumina. Hawesville purchases alumina under a supply agreement with Gramercy Alumina LLC (“GAL”), our 50% joint venture company, which owns and operates the Gramercy alumina refinery. The alumina supply agreement runs through December 31, 2010 and the contract pricing varies based on GAL’s cost of production. - 7 - - Table of Contents Power. Hawesville purchases substantially all of its power from Kenergy Corp. (“Kenergy”), a retail electric member cooperative of Big Rivers Electrical Corporation (“Big Rivers”), under a power supply contract that expires at the end of 2010. Under this contract, approximately 70% of this power is at fixed prices. We continuously review our options to manage the remaining power balance of 30% and price it when we believe the combination of price and term are appropriate. We are working with Big Rivers Electric Corporation (“Big Rivers”) and Kenergy on a proposal that would restructure and extend the existing power supply contract through 2023. Hawesville’s proposed new long-term power contract was filed with the Kentucky Public Service Commission in December 2008. The contract would provide all of Hawesville’s power requirements through 2023 at cost-based pricing. The parties involved expect the transaction to close in the second quarter of 2009. Employees. The bargaining unit employees at Hawesville are represented by the USWA. Century’s collective bargaining agreement, which covers all of the represented hourly employees at Hawesville, expires March 31, 2010. Ravenswood The Ravenswood facility (“Ravenswood”) is owned and operated by our subsidiary, Century Aluminum of West Virginia, Inc. (“Century of West Virginia”). Built in 1957, Ravenswood operates four potlines with a production capacity of 170,000 metric tons. The facility is located adjacent to the Ohio River near Ravenswood, West Virginia. As the rapid and significant deterioration in our industry’s conditions became evident during the second half of 2008, we began taking actions to reduce our overall cost base. At Ravenswood, we suspended production of one potline in December 2008, representing approximately 42,500 mtpy, or approximately 25% of the plant’s capacity. We also agreed to reduce deliveries to Alcan, our major customer at Ravenswood. In addition, we issued a Federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification ("WARN") Act notice on December 17, 2008, commencing a 60-day process, which at its conclusion led to the decision to curtail the operations of the entire plant. We initiated this process due to Ravenswood’s high operating cost in relation to our other facilities. In February 2009, we conducted an orderly curtailment of the remaining plant operations at Ravenswood. Layoffs for the majority of Ravenswood's employees were completed by February 20, 2009. We expect that Ravenswood’s operations will remain curtailed until economic conditions warrant the possibility of restarting. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent Developments” for additional information about the Ravenswood curtailment. Metal Sales Agreements. We have a supply contract with Alcan under which Alcan will purchase 14 million pounds (approximately 6,350 metric tons) per month of molten aluminum through August 31, 2009 (the “Alcan Metal Agreement”). The price for primary aluminum delivered under the Alcan Metal Agreement is variable and determined by reference to the U.S. Midwest Market Price. Under this contract, we can deliver molten aluminum, which reduces our casting and shipping costs. Prior to the Ravenswood curtailment in February 2009, we sold 10,200 metric tons per year of primary aluminum produced at Ravenswood under a contract with Glencore (the “Glencore Metal Agreement II”). Under the Glencore Metal Agreement II, Glencore purchased a total of 20,400 metric tons per year of the primary aluminum produced at the Ravenswood and Mt. Holly facilities, at a price determined by reference to the U.S. Midwest Market Price, subject to an agreed cap and floor as applied to the U.S. Midwest Premium. We plan to assign Ravenswood production requirements under this contract to Mt. Holly or Hawesville. However, curtailing operations at Ravenswood does not relieve us of our contractual obligations. We may continue to incur costs under these contracts to meet our contractual obligations, including potentially securing other aluminum to satisfy our obligations to Alcan and Glencore. For a description of certain risks attendant to these agreements, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Alumina. Glencore supplies the alumina used at Ravenswood under a contract that expires on December 31, 2009. The contract pricing varies based on the LME price for primary aluminum. If we are unable to use the contracted alumina in our other operations or sell the alumina at prices consistent with our contract costs, we could incur significant losses under these contracts. As a result of the Ravenswood curtailment, we expect to incur cash losses of approximately $15 to $20 million in 2009 associated with the sale of excess alumina that will be received under this alumina supply agreement. This estimate is based on current alumina contract pricing which is indexed to LME prices for primary aluminum, our estimate of spot alumina prices and the forecasted internal use of a portion of this material in our other smelting operations. For a description of certain risks attendant to these agreements, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” - 8 - - Table of Contents Power. Appalachian Power Company (“APCo”) supplies all of Ravenswood’s power requirements under an agreement at prices set forth in published tariffs, which are subject to change. Effective July 28, 2006, the Public Service Commission for the State of West Virginia approved an experimental rate design in connection with an increase in the applicable tariff rates. Under the experimental rate, Ravenswood may be excused from or may defer the payment of the increase in the tariff rate if aluminum prices as quoted on the LME fall below pre-determined levels. Under our agreement with APCo, we are obligated to pay minimum demand charges through the contract term which expires June 30, 2009. We expect that those minimum demand charges will be approximately $5.0 to $6.0 million in 2009. In April 2008, APCo requested a rate increase to cover the increased cost of fuel and purchased power as well as capital improvements. The West Virginia Public Service Commission approved an approximate 11% increase in the special contract rate paid by our Ravenswood smelter on June 26, 2008. The rate increase was effective July 1, 2008. Employees. The bargaining unit employees at Ravenswood are represented by the USWA. The collective bargaining agreement that covers all of the represented hourly employees at Ravenswood expires May 31, 2009. Mt. Holly Mt. Holly, located in Mt. Holly, South Carolina, was built in 1980 and is the most recently constructed aluminum reduction facility in the United States. The facility consists of two potlines with a total annual rated production capacity of 224,000 metric tons and casting equipment used to cast molten aluminum into standard-grade ingot, extrusion billet and other value-added primary aluminum products. Value-added primary aluminum products are sold at a premium to standard-grade primary aluminum. Our 49.7% interest represents approximately 111,000 metric tons of the facility’s annual production capacity. Our interest in Mt. Holly is held through our subsidiary, Berkeley Aluminum, Inc. (“Berkeley”). Under the Mt. Holly ownership structure, we hold an undivided 49.7% interest in the property, plant and equipment comprising the aluminum reduction operations at Mt. Holly and an equivalent share in the general partnership responsible for the operation and maintenance of the facility. Alcoa owns the remaining 50.3% interest in Mt. Holly and an equivalent share of the operating partnership. Under the terms of the operating partnership, Alcoa is responsible for operating and maintaining the facility. Each owner supplies its own alumina for conversion to primary aluminum and is responsible for its proportionate share of operational and maintenance costs. Metal Sales Agreements. We have a contract to sell to Glencore 50,000 metric tons of primary aluminum produced at Mt. Holly each year through December 31, 2009 (the “Glencore Metal Agreement I”). The Glencore Metal Agreement I provides for variable pricing determined by reference to the quoted LME price of primary aluminum. Mt. Holly also sells 10,200 metric tons per year of primary aluminum under the Glencore Metal Agreement II. More information on the Glencore Metal Agreement II is available under “Long-term Primary Aluminum Sales Contracts” in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. Alumina. Substantially all of our alumina requirements for Mt. Holly will be provided by Trafigura AG under an agreement that extends through 2013. The pricing for alumina under our contract with Trafigura are variable and based on the LME price for primary aluminum. Power. Mt. Holly purchases all of its power requirements from the South Carolina Public Service Authority (“Santee Cooper”) under a contract that runs through 2015. Power delivered through 2010 will be priced at rates fixed under currently published schedules, subject to adjustments to cover Santee Cooper’s fuel costs. Rates for the period 2011 through 2015 will be as provided under then-applicable schedules. Employees. The employees at Mt. Holly are employed by Alcoa and are not unionized. Helguvik greenfield project The Helguvik project site is located approximately 30 miles from the city of Reykjavik and is owned and would be operated through our Nordural Helguvik ehf subsidiary. This site provides a flat location and existing harbor, as well as proximity to the international airport, the capital and other industry. - 9 - - Table of Contents We are currently evaluating the Helguvik project’s cost, scope and schedule in light of the global economic crisis and weakening commodity prices. During this evaluation process, we have significantly reduced spending on the project. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Construction at our Helguvik smelter site is under review” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Cost Reduction Actions” for additional information. We have made and continue making modest capital expenditures for the construction and development of our new Helguvik smelter project. In 2008, we expended cash of approximately $71 million in capital expenditures for the Helguvik greenfield project, and, from inception through December 31, 2008, we expended cash of approximately $83 million for Helguvik. We expect that capital expenditures on this project during 2009 will be in the range of $25 to $30 million until and unless a decision is made to restart major construction and engineering activities. This amount includes approximately $19 million for deferred payments to suppliers. Power Supply Agreements. Nordural Helguvik has signed electrical power supply agreements with HS Orka hf and OR, for the proposed Helguvik smelter. Under the agreements, power will be supplied to the proposed Helguvik facility in four 90,000 mtpy stages, beginning with an initial phase of up to 160 megawatts (“MW”). HS Orka hf will provide up to 150 MW in this initial stage, and OR will supply up to 47.5 MW. Electricity delivery for this first phase is targeted to begin in late 2011. The agreements which are subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions provide for additional power, as available to support a complete potline of 360,000 mtpy. Site and other agreements. To date, we have signed a site agreement and a harbor agreement. Environmental Impact Assessment. In October 2007, Nordural received a positive opinion from the Icelandic Planning Agency on the Environmental Impact Assessment (“EIA”) for the proposed Helguvik smelter. Transmission Agreement. In October 2007, Nordural Helguvik signed a transmission agreement with Landsnet to provide an electrical power transmission system to the proposed Helguvik smelter. Landsnet is the company responsible for operating and managing Iceland’s transmission system. Operating License. On September 10, 2008, the Environmental Agency of Iceland issued an Operating License for the Helguvik smelter project. The license authorizes production of up 250,000 mtpy through December 31, 2024. Joint Venture Facilities Baise Haohai Carbon Company, Ltd. In April 2008, we entered into a joint venture agreement whereby we acquired a 40% stake in Baise Haohai Carbon Co., Ltd., a carbon anode and cathode facility located in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of south China. The BHH facility has annual anode production capacity of 180,000 metric tons and an annual cathode production capacity of 20,000 metric tons. Construction on the facility was completed in 2008. We paid $27.6 million for the investment and transferred an additional $9.4 million for a loan to BHH. Our investment in the joint venture is accounted for using the equity method of accounting with results of operations reported on a one-quarter lag. We received a $1.8 million payment on our loan to BHH in December 2008. BHH is currently operating at 50% of its rated capacity due to the reduced operations of its main customer in China. Gramercy Alumina LLC (“GAL”) The alumina refinery in Gramercy, owned by GAL, is equally owned by Century and a joint venture partner. Gramercy began operations in 1959 and consists of a production facility, a powerhouse for steam and electricity production, a deep water dock and a barge loading facility. Extensive portions of the Gramercy plant were rebuilt and modernized between 2000 and 2002. - 10 - - Table of Contents Alumina Operations. The Gramercy refinery has an annual rated capacity of 1.2 million metric tons of alumina per year. Gramercy’s production consists of approximately 80% smelter grade alumina and 20% alumina hydrate or chemical grade alumina. GAL sells approximately 50% of its smelter grade alumina to Hawesville at prices based on Gramercy's production costs under an alumina supply contract due to expire on December 31, 2010. All of the chemical grade alumina production is currently sold under short-term and long-term contracts with approximately twenty third-party customers. Gramercy is currently operating at a reduced capacity of 500,000 metric tons of smelter grade alumina while we and our joint venture partners assess market conditions. Gramercy’s chemical grade alumina production has not been affected by this reduction in production. Supply Agreements. Bauxite is the principal raw material used in the production of alumina, and natural gas is the principal energy source. The Gramercy plant purchases all of its bauxite requirements from St. Ann Bauxite Ltd. under a contract that expires at the end of 2010. The Gramercy plant purchases its natural gas requirements at market prices under agreements with local suppliers. St. Ann Bauxite Limited (“SABL”) SABL, which owns bauxite mining operations, is equally owned by Century and a joint venture partner. The bauxite mining operations are comprised of: (i) a concession from the Government of Jamaica (“GOJ”) to mine bauxite in Jamaica (the “mining rights,”) and (ii) a 49% interest in a Jamaican partnership that owns certain mining assets in Jamaica (the “mining assets”). The GOJ owns the remaining 51% interest in the partnership. The mining assets consist primarily of rail facilities, other mobile equipment, dryers, and loading and dock facilities. Bauxite Mining Rights. Under the terms of the mining rights, SABL manages the operations of the partnership, pays operating costs and is entitled to all of its bauxite production. The GOJ receives: (i) a royalty based on the amount of bauxite mined, (ii) an annual “asset usage fee” for the use of the GOJ's 51% interest in the mining assets and (iii) certain fees for lands owned by the GOJ that are covered by the mining rights. SABL also pays to the GOJ customary income taxes and certain other fees pursuant to an agreement with the GOJ that establishes a fiscal regime for SABL. A production levy normally applicable to bauxite mined in Jamaica has been waived for SABL through December 2008. If the levy is subsequently assessed on bauxite produced by SABL, the Establishment Agreement provides that certain payments to the GOJ will be reduced and SABL and the GOJ will negotiate amendments to SABL's fiscal regime in order to mitigate the effects of the levy. Under the terms of the mining rights, SABL mines the land covered by the mining rights and the GOJ retains surface rights and ownership of the land. The GOJ granted the mining rights and entered into other agreements with SABL for the purpose of ensuring the St. Ann facility is able to provide its customers with sufficient reserves to meet their annual alumina requirements. Under the mining rights, GOJ has granted SABL rights to mine 4.5 million dry metric tons of bauxite on specified lands annually through September 30, 2030. The GOJ will provide additional land if the land covered by the mining rights does not contain sufficient quantities of commercially exploitable bauxite. SABL is responsible for reclamation of the land that it mines. As of December 31, 2008, SABL’s reclamation obligations amounted to approximately $7.4 million. Customers. Approximately 60% of the bauxite from St. Ann is refined into alumina at the Gramercy refinery and the remainder is sold to Sherwin Alumina Company, which is owned by Glencore, a related party. SABL and GAL have a contract under which SABL will supply the Gramercy plant's bauxite requirements through December 2010. The price for bauxite under the contract is fixed through 2010. SABL has various short-term agreements with third parties for the supply of fuel oil, diesel fuel, container leasing and other locally provided services. - 11 - - Table of Contents Environmental Matters We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. We have spent, and expect to spend, significant amounts for compliance with those laws and regulations. In addition, some of our past manufacturing activities have resulted in environmental consequences which require remedial measures. Under certain environmental laws which may impose liability regardless of fault, we may be liable for the costs of remediation of contaminated property, including our current and formerly owned or operated properties or adjacent areas, or for the amelioration of damage to natural resources. We believe, based on currently available information, that our current environmental liabilities are not likely to have a material adverse effect on Century. However, we cannot predict the requirements of future environmental laws and future requirements at current or formerly owned or operated properties or adjacent areas. Such future requirements may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. More information concerning our environmental contingencies can be found in Note 17 Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. Intellectual Property We own or have rights to use a number of patents or patent applications relating to various aspects of our operations. We do not consider our business to be materially dependent on any of these patents or patent applications. Employees As of February 27, 2008, we employed a work force of approximately 1,370 employees, which reflects layoffs as a result of the curtailment of our operations at Ravenswood. Available Information Additional information about Century may be obtained from our website, which is located at www.centuryaluminum.com. Our website provides access to filings we have made through the SEC's EDGAR filing system, including our annual, quarterly and current reports filed on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, respectively, and ownership reports filed on Forms 3, 4 and 5 after December 16, 2002 by our directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. These filings are also available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, we will make available free of charge copies of our Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and Forms 8-K upon request. Requests for these documents can be made by contacting our Investor Relations Department by mail at: 2511 Garden Road, Suite A200, Monterey, CA 93940, or phone at: (831) 642-9300. Information contained in our website is not incorporated by reference in, and should not be considered a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following describes certain of the risks and uncertainties we face that could cause our future results to differ materially from our current results and from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements. These risk factors should be considered together with the other risks and uncertainties described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere herein. This list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. - 12 - - Table of Contents Recent declines in aluminum prices have adversely affected our financial position and results of operations and could result in further curtailment of operations at one or more of our facilities if alternate sources of liquidity are not available or prices do not increase. The price of primary aluminum is frequently volatile and changes in response to general economic conditions, expectations for supply and demand growth or contraction and the level of global inventories. The recent crisis in financial and credit markets has led to a pronounced downturn in global economic activity, which is expected to be long in duration. The global market for commodities has deteriorated in line with the decline in the global economy. The Chinese market has become a significant source of global demand for primary aluminum and now represents approximately one-third of global aluminum demand. China’s demand for aluminum has more than doubled in the last five years, but demand has recently declined significantly. Declining demand for aluminum products in developed and developing nations, increasing stocks on the LME and other locations, and a general lack of confidence in future economic conditions, have combined to produce an unprecedented decline in the LME price for aluminum. The price we realize for our products is primarily set on the LME; we have no ability to influence this price. The LME price has fallen 62% from its high on July 11, 2008 ($3,292 per metric ton), to February 20, 2009 ($1,264 per metric ton), with the rate of decline accelerating in the fourth quarter of 2008. This decline represents one of the most, if not the most, substantial and rapid in the history of recorded LME prices. The average LME price for primary aluminum dropped 53% in the second half of 2008 and, at December 31, 2008, was approximately 38% lower than at December 31, 2007. At February 20, 2009, the LME price for primary aluminum was $1,264 per metric ton, or 16% lower than at December 31, 2008. Any decline in aluminum prices adversely affects our business, our financial position, our results of operations and our cash flows. Sustained depressed prices for aluminum would likely have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. At recent primary aluminum prices, we believe at least two-thirds of global primary aluminum capacity, including all of our domestic facilities, is operating below cash breakeven. Recently, we have seen certain operating costs begin to decrease. The pricing under our alumina contract at Mt. Holly is linked to the LME price for primary aluminum; as a result, such costs have fallen. However, other operating expenses may not decrease to any meaningful extent or, in certain cases, may even increase. If the price we realize for our products continues to be below our cost of production, we will have to rely on other sources of liquidity to fund our operations. If primary aluminum prices were to remain at or near recent levels for the entirety of 2009, or were to decline further, our liquidity would be at risk. Potential other sources of liquidity could include additional issuances of equity, equity-linked securities, debt issuances, prepaid aluminum sales, asset sales and sales of minority interests in our operations. We cannot assure you that any of these financing alternatives will be available or, if available, that they will be successfully completed. In addition, any future equity or equity-linked security issuance may be dilutive to our existing stockholders and any future debt incurrence would increase our leverage and interest expense and would contain restrictive covenants. We may also curtail additional operations at one or more of our facilities. Such curtailments require cash expenditures which we might not be able to fund. There can be no assurances that in current market conditions we will be able to secure the required alternative sources of liquidity to fund our operations or to take actions necessary to curtail additional operations, if these steps are required. A continuation or worsening of global financial and economic conditions could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. The recent global financial and credit market disruptions have reduced the availability of liquidity and credit generally. The shortage of liquidity and credit, combined with recent substantial reductions in asset values, is likely extending and worsening the worldwide economic recession. The general slowdown in economic activity caused by the recent domestic recession and difficult international financial and economic conditions will adversely affect our business, as the demand for primary aluminum has been reduced and the price of our products has fallen. A continuation or worsening of the current difficult financial and economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ ability to meet the terms of sale and could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. - 13 - - Table of Contents Our ability to access the credit and capital markets on acceptable terms to obtain funding for our operations and capital projects may be limited due to the deterioration of these markets. Our consolidated cash and short-term investment balance at January 31, 2009 was approximately $154 million. This amount includes $25 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility during the fourth quarter of 2008 and invested in highly rated short-term securities. During February 2009, we repaid the borrowing under our revolving credit facility and completed a public offering of 24.5 million shares of our common stock. The net proceeds of the offering to us were approximately $104.7 million, after underwriter discounts and commissions, and before offering expenses. Pro forma for the revolving credit facility repayment and the common stock offering proceeds, our cash and short-term investment balance at January 31, 2009 would have been $235 million. Availability under our revolving credit facility would be up to $35 million. This availability has been and will continue to be reduced by the reduced value of our inventory and the curtailment of operations at the Ravenswood facility, which reduces the working capital constituting the borrowing base under the revolving credit facility. For more information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources - Liquidity. Due to the recent downturn in the financial markets, including the issues surrounding the solvency of many institutional lenders and the recent failure of several banks, we may be unable to utilize the full borrowing capacity under our credit facility if any of the committed lenders is unable or unwilling to fund their respective portion of any funding request we make under our credit facility. In addition, the lenders under our revolving credit facility have the ability to modify the reserve criteria in the facility, which could further reduce our borrowing base. As a result, liquidity available to us under the revolving credit facility could be reduced. Finally, our revolving credit facility will mature in September 2010, and the holders of our $175 million principal amount of convertible notes have an option to require us to repurchase all or any portion of these securities at par in August 2011 and to require us to settle in cash as market prices up to the principal amount of the convertible notes upon conversion, which may occur at any time. Each of these events will increase our liquidity needs. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information about our sources of liquidity. Although in the past we have generally been able to generate funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses and fund our capital expenditures and other obligations, our ability to continue to meet these cash requirements in the future could, depending upon the future price of aluminum (over which we have no control) and our future capital programs, require substantial liquidity and access to sources of funds, including from capital and credit markets. Changes in global economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity, and the success of plans to manage costs, inventory and other important elements of our business, may significantly impact our ability to generate funds from operations. If, among other factors, (1) primary aluminum prices were to remain on average at or around recent levels, or were to decline further, or (2) our costs are higher than contemplated, or (3) we suffer unexpected production outages, or (4) Icelandic laws change and limit our access to cash flow from our Icelandic operations, our expectations of our liquidity would change and we would need to identify additional sources of liquidity sooner and the period of time for which we would expect our liquidity to be sufficient to fund our operations would be shorter. Current conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain new funding for our operating and capital needs, if required, from the credit and capital markets. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased, while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished and we have limited available committed financing. Also, as a result of concern about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining funding from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. An inability to access capital and credit markets could be expected to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding for our operating or capital needs will be available from the credit and capital markets if needed and to the extent required, or on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unacceptable terms, we may be unable to respond to competitive pressures or fund operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and financial position. - 14 - - Table of Contents The recent turmoil in the financial markets could have adverse effects on our pension funding obligations. We maintain two qualified defined benefit plans, and contribute to a third, on behalf of our employees. As a result of poor investment returns in 2008 due to the global financial crisis, the benefit plans we maintain were underfunded as of December 31, 2008, and could require significant cash contributions in 2010, further stressing our liquidity position. If capital markets remain depressed, pension fund balances would remain reduced and additional cash contributions to the pension funds would be required. If economic and political conditions in Iceland continue to deteriorate, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Approximately one-third of our existing primary aluminum production capacity is located in Iceland. In addition, our most significant new growth prospects are in Iceland. In order to operate our business and pursue our growth activities, we maintain cash management accounts in Iceland with Icelandic banks. The three major Icelandic banks were taken into government administration during the fourth quarter of 2008, and, on January 26, 2009, Iceland’s Prime Minister and his cabinet resigned, requiring an interim government until elections scheduled to be held in May 2009. As a result of concern about the stability of the Icelandic financial markets, cash management activities in Iceland have become more challenging. For example, the Icelandic government and the Central Bank of Iceland are restricting the free transfer of funds outside of Iceland. In furtherance of this, on November 28, 2008, the Central Bank of Iceland adopted rules regarding the movement of foreign currency within and outside of Iceland. The rules are broad and impose many restrictions on the movement of foreign currencies outside of Iceland. By letter dated January 23, 2009, we were notified that our Icelandic operations are exempt from these foreign currency rules. However, we cannot control further actions by the Central Bank of Iceland, which might restrict our ability to transfer funds through the Icelandic banking system and outside of Iceland. While we currently maintain essentially all of our Icelandic operating funds in accounts outside of Iceland, and are receiving substantially all of our customer payments in such accounts, a portion of our funds remain in the Icelandic banks to meet local working capital requirements. In addition, as payables become due in Iceland, we must transfer funds through the Icelandic banking system. The Icelandic government has fully guaranteed all of the accounts in the Icelandic banks and both before and after the banks were taken into government administration our transactions through the Icelandic banking system have been successfully transmitted. However, if economic and financial conditions in Iceland deteriorate, or if counterparties and lenders become unwilling to engage in normal banking relations with and within Iceland, our ability to pay vendors, process payroll and receive payments could be adversely impacted. In addition, the collapse of the Icelandic banking system, combined with other factors, has resulted in a significant deterioration in the general economic conditions in the country. While our business in Iceland is currently operating without significant difficulties, further impacts, if any, of these developments are uncertain and cannot be estimated at this time. On January 27, 2009, the Icelandic president assigned the task of forming a new government to the Social Democratic party. The Social Democratic party led a minority government formed with the Left Green Party. The Left Green Party has generally been less supportive of aluminum projects than the parties leading the prior government. This change in Icelandic government could delay or otherwise adversely affect the passage of the Enabling Act and approval of the Investment Agreement. While we cannot predict the outcome of the upcoming elections, uncertainty or instability in the Icelandic government could have an adverse effect on our business. The market price of our common stock has declined significantly, may continue to be volatile, and may decline further. As a result of the global economic and financial crisis and the global decline in aluminum prices, the market price of our common stock has declined significantly in recent months, and it may continue to be volatile. From January 1, 2008, through February 20, 2009, the intra-day sales price of our common stock on NASDAQ ranged from $2.22 to $80.52 per share. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations, expectations about the future price of aluminum, changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, changes in research coverage by securities analysts, any announcement by us of significant acquisitions, curtailments, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, developments in the aluminum industry, including with respect to our major competitors, and sales of substantial numbers of shares by current holders of our common stock in the public market. In addition, general economic, political and market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance may cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile. We cannot predict the price at which our common stock will trade in the future, and it may continue to decline. As a result, holders of our stock may not be able to sell it when they want, at prices they want or at all. - 15 - - Table of Contents Our planned construction and development activities require substantial capital. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could delay or curtail our planned construction projects. In light of current global financial and economic conditions, we are reviewing our capital plans and reducing, stopping or deferring all non-critical capital expenditures in our existing smelters. We have made and continue making modest capital expenditures for the construction and development of our new Helguvik smelter project. In 2008, we expended approximately $71 million in capital expenditures for the Helguvik greenfield project, and, from inception through December 31, 2008, we expended approximately $83 million for Helguvik. We are currently evaluating the Helguvik project’s cost, scope and schedule in light of the global economic crisis and weakening commodity prices. During this evaluation process, we have significantly reduced spending on the project; we expect that capital expenditures on this project during 2009 will be in the range of $25 to $30 million until and unless a decision is made to restart major construction and engineering activities. This amount includes approximately $19 million for deferred payments to suppliers. See “— Construction at our Helguvik smelter site is under review” below. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures from available cash, our cash flow from operations and from future capital raising. We may be unable to raise additional capital, or do so on attractive terms, due to a number of factors including a lack of demand, poor economic conditions, unfavorable interest rates or our financial condition or credit rating at the time. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to access the capital markets and our financial condition. If additional capital resources are unavailable, we may further curtail construction and development activities. Construction at our Helguvik smelter site is under review. We are currently evaluating the Helguvik project’s cost, scope and schedule in light of the global economic crisis and weakening commodity prices. During this evaluation process, we have significantly reduced spending on the project. We cannot be certain when or if we will restart major construction and engineering activities or ultimately complete the Helguvik project or, if completed, that the Helguvik smelter would operate in a profitable manner. We will not realize any return on our significant investment in the Helguvik project until we are able to commence Helguvik operations in a profitable manner. If we fail to achieve operations, we may have to recognize a loss on our investment, and a loss of our investment would have a negative impact on our future earnings. If we decide to proceed, this project is subject to various contractual approvals and conditions. There can be no assurance that we will receive the necessary approvals to proceed with construction of our Helguvik smelter, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, such approvals as we do receive may be subject to conditions that are unfavorable or make the project impracticable or less attractive from a financial standpoint. Even if we receive necessary approvals on terms that we determine are acceptable, the construction of this project is a complex undertaking. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the project within our projected budget and schedule. To successfully execute this project, we will also need to arrange additional financing and either enter into tolling arrangements or secure a supply of alumina. In addition, unforeseen technical difficulties could increase the cost of the project, delay the project or render the project not feasible. Any delay in the completion of the project or increased costs could have a material negative impact on our financial performance and future prospects. We may be required to write down the value of certain assets. We are required to perform various analyses related to the carrying value of various tangible and intangible assets annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that their net carrying amount may not be recoverable. Given the current lack of profitability of certain of our production facilities and, more generally, global economic conditions, which in part drive assumptions for the future in such analyses, we could have significant adjustments in the carrying value for certain assets. In December 2008, we determined an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of a portion of our long-lived assets was not currently required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. (“FAS”) 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” We will continue to evaluate these assets as long as events or circumstances indicate that their net carrying amount may not be recoverable and we may be required to record impairment charges in the future. We recorded a $94.8 million impairment charge to eliminate the carrying value of our goodwill relating to the acquisition of Nordural in accordance with FAS 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” We also recorded a $544.1 million valuation allowance against a significant portion of our deferred tax assets based upon our best estimate of our ability to realize the net deferred tax assets. Management will continue to evaluate our tangible and intangible assets for impairments and valuation allowance, which could be significant. Any such adjustments would be in the form of a non-cash charge which would reduce our earnings and reduce our balance of retained earnings. - 16 - - Table of Contents Our credit ratings have been recently changed by two major credit rating agencies. Two major credit rating agencies have recently changed the status of our ratings on a general basis and on our specific debt securities. On January 30, 2009, Standard & Poor’s removed their CreditWatch and downgraded our credit rating to “B” with a negative outlook from “BB-“. Standard & Poor’s has stated that the downgrade reflects their expectation that operating results will deteriorate over the next several quarters due to continued low aluminum prices that are unlikely to show significant improvement until general economic activity picks up globally and high inventory levels are reduced. According to Standard & Poor’s, an obligation rated “B” is more vulnerable to nonpayment than obligations rated “BB”, but the obligor currently has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. Standard & Poor’s also notes that adverse business, financial, or economic conditions will likely impair the obligor's capacity or willingness to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. On December 17, 2008, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded our credit rating to “B2” from “Ba3” and kept our ratings under review for further possible downgrade. Moody’s has stated the “B2” corporate family rating reflects Moody’s expectation that earnings and cash flow will be pressured by the impact of substantially lower aluminum prices on our higher cost U.S. operations. According to Moody’s, obligations rated “B” are considered speculative and subject to high credit risk. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. These recent actions by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, and any further actions the credit rating agencies may take, could negatively impact our ability to access liquidity in the credit and capital markets in the future and could lead to worsened trade terms, increasing our liquidity needs. The cyclical nature of the aluminum industry causes variability in our earnings and cash flows. Our operating results depend on the market for primary aluminum, which is a highly cyclical commodity with prices that are affected by global demand and supply factors and other conditions. Historically, aluminum prices have been volatile, and we expect such volatility to continue. Currently, we are experiencing unfavorable global economic conditions and a substantial decline in worldwide demand for primary aluminum. Declines in primary aluminum prices reduce our earnings and cash flows. This downturn in aluminum prices has significantly reduced the amount of cash available to meet our current obligations and fund our long-term business strategies. Our molten aluminum sales at Ravenswood and Hawesville are subject to sales contracts which limit our ability to cut costs and create dependence on two major customers. We have contracts with Alcan and Southwire which are due to expire in August 2009 and March 2011, respectively. These contracts obligate us to deliver required quantities of aluminum which limit our ability to cut costs by curtailing operations. In addition, our contract with Southwire requires us to deliver molten metal. Curtailing operations at these facilities does not relieve us of our contractual obligations. We will continue to incur costs under these contracts to meet our contractual obligations, including potentially securing other aluminum to satisfy our obligations. - 17 - - Table of Contents In addition, when LME prices improve, the loss of Southwire as a customer could increase our production costs at Hawesville and increase our sales and marketing costs. Approximately 20% of our consolidated net sales for 2008 were derived from sales to Southwire. Southwire’s facility is located adjacent to Hawesville. Due to this proximity, we are able to deliver molten aluminum to this customer, thereby eliminating our casting and shipping costs and our customer’s freight and remelting costs and reducing our sales and marketing costs. We may be unable to extend or replace our contract with Southwire when it terminates. If we are unable to renew this contract when it expires or if Southwire significantly reduces its purchases under this contract, we would incur higher casting and shipping costs and potentially higher sales and marketing costs. Hawesville is not currently qualified to sell metal directly to the LME; if it were required to make sales outside of the Southwire long-term contract prior to us receiving this qualification, these sales would likely require the services of third party agents which would require us to incur additional costs. There can be no assurance that our current initiatives to qualify Hawesville will be successful. We will be required to incur substantial costs in order to curtail unprofitable aluminum production. None of our U.S. smelting capacity is profitable on a cash basis at recent primary aluminum prices, and we are currently assessing cost reduction actions, including the further curtailment of production at unprofitable facilities, in light of these unfavorable economic conditions. We have curtailed our operations at Ravenswood and additional operations at our facilities could be curtailed unless the LME selling price for aluminum stabilizes and we are able to materially reduce costs and stem monthly losses. Curtailing unprofitable production in order to reduce our operating costs will require us to incur substantial expense, both at the time of the curtailment and ongoing. These facilities are subject to contractual and other fixed costs that will continue even if we curtail operations at these facilities. These costs will reduce the cost saving advantages of curtailing unprofitable aluminum production. In addition, the prospect of these costs limits our flexibility to curtail all of our unprofitable production. In addition to these costs, our joint ownership of certain of our operations limits our ability to curtail these operations. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of power would reduce the profitability of our operations. We use large amounts of electricity to produce primary aluminum. Any loss of power which reduces the amperage to our equipment or causes an equipment shutdown would result in a reduction in the volume of molten aluminum produced, and sudden losses of power may result in the hardening or “freezing” of molten aluminum in the pots where it is produced. Interruptions in the supply of electrical power to our facilities can be caused by a number of circumstances, including unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment failure, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. If such a condition were to occur, we may lose production for a prolonged period of time and incur significant losses. We maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, but are required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, the coverage under those policies may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not cover certain events. Certain of our insurance policies do not cover any losses that may be incurred if our suppliers are unable to provide power during periods of unusually high demand. Certain losses or prolonged interruptions in our operations may trigger a default under our revolving credit facility. The cost of alumina used at Hawesville may be higher than under our LME-based alumina contracts. We acquire alumina used at Ravenswood and Mt. Holly at prices based on the LME price for primary aluminum. Gramercy supplies substantially all of the alumina used at Hawesville at prices based on Gramercy’s production costs. Those production costs are materially higher than the price paid under LME based contracts during periods, such as exist at the present time, when aluminum prices are low. - 18 - - Table of Contents Changes or disruptions to our current alumina and other raw material supply arrangements could increase our raw material costs. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for alumina. Disruptions to our supply of alumina could occur for a variety of reasons, including disruptions of production at a particular supplier’s alumina refinery. These disruptions may require us to purchase alumina on the spot market on less favorable terms than under our current agreements. Gramercy supplies substantially all the alumina used at Hawesville. Our joint venture bauxite mining operation in St. Ann, Jamaica, supplies all of the bauxite used in the production of alumina at Gramercy. If there is a significant disruption of St. Ann bauxite shipments in the future, Gramercy could incur additional costs if it is required to use bauxite from other sources. Our business also depends upon the adequate supply of other raw materials, including caustic soda, aluminum fluoride, calcined petroleum coke, pitch, finished carbon anodes and cathodes, at competitive prices. Although there remain multiple sources for these raw materials worldwide, consolidation among suppliers has globally reduced the number of available suppliers in this industry. A disruption in our raw materials supply from our existing suppliers due to a labor dispute, shortage of their raw materials or other unforeseen factors may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to secure alternate supplies of these materials at comparable prices. Our contracts for alumina require us to take-or-pay for fixed quantities of alumina, even if we curtail unprofitable production capacity. We have contractual obligations under our existing alumina purchase contracts to take-or-pay for specified quantities of alumina over the term of those contracts, regardless of our operating requirements. We have an alumina contract with Glencore to supply Ravenswood through December 2009. We also have entered into a follow-on long-term alumina contract with Glencore to provide for our future alumina requirements for Ravenswood and, potentially, our Helguvik project. Deliveries under that contract will begin in January 2010 and continue through 2014. In February 2009, we curtailed operations at our Ravenswood facility; in addition our Helguvik project is under review. We cannot be certain when or if we will restart major construction and engineering activities or ultimately complete the Helguvik project. See the risk factor “Construction at our Helguvik smelter site is under review” above for additional information about this project. Curtailing operations does not relieve us of our contractual obligations. We will continue to incur costs under these contracts to meet or settle our contractual obligations. If we are unable to use the contracted alumina in our other operations or sell the alumina at prices consistent with our contract costs, we could incur significant losses under these contracts. As a result of the Ravenswood curtailment, we expect to incur cash losses of approximately $15 to $20 million in 2009 associated with the sale of excess alumina that will be received under our alumina supply agreement that expires December 31, 2009. This estimate is based on current alumina contract pricing which is indexed to LME prices for primary aluminum, our estimate of spot alumina prices and the forecasted internal use of a portion of this material in our other smelting operations. Changes in the relative cost and availability of certain raw materials and energy compared to the price of primary aluminum could affect our operating results. Our operating results vary significantly with changes in the price of primary aluminum and the raw materials used in its production, including alumina, caustic soda, aluminum fluoride, calcined petroleum coke, pitch, finished carbon anodes and cathodes. Because we sell our products based on the LME price for primary aluminum, we cannot pass on increased costs to our customers. Although we attempt to mitigate the effects of price fluctuations through the use of various fixed-price commitments and financial instruments and by pricing some of our raw materials and energy contracts based on LME prices, these efforts also limit our ability to take advantage of favorable changes in the market prices for primary aluminum or raw materials. Electricity represents our single largest operating cost. As a result, the availability of electricity at economic prices is critical to the profitability of our operations. We purchase a significant portion of our electricity for our U.S. facilities under fixed-price contracts. Portions of the contracted cost of the electricity supplied to Mt. Holly vary with the supplier’s fuel costs. An increase in these fuel costs would increase the price this facility pays for electricity. Costs under this contract have substantially increased in recent years, and this trend appears to be continuing into 2009. Approximately 70% of Hawesville’s power requirements are supplied under a fixed-price contract. As a result, Hawesville is subject to market-based pricing for approximately 30% of its power requirements. The profitability of Hawesville is affected by the market price for electric power. We are working with a local power company on a proposal that would restructure and extend Hawesville’s existing power supply contract through 2023. This agreement is expected to close in the second quarter of 2009 and is subject to contractual conditions, which include obtaining the approvals of federal and state regulatory agencies. We cannot assure whether or when the closing will occur. If we are not successful in replacing such power requirements, we may be forced to curtail or idle a portion of our production capacity, which would lower our revenues and adversely affect the profitability of our operations when the price of primary aluminum is high. If we are successful in restructuring the contract for the power supply at Hawesville, the new rate we will pay, which will be based on the supplier’s cost of production, could be higher than the price we currently pay under our current fixed-price contract, which could increase Hawesville’s production costs. - 19 - - Table of Contents Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at our facilities, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, unplanned power outages, supply disruptions, or equipment failures, may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise disrupt our operations. We are subject to the risk of union disputes. The bargaining unit employees at Ravenswood and Hawesville and Gramercy are represented by the USWA. Century’s USWA labor contracts at Ravenswood and Hawesville and the labor contract at Gramercy expire in May 2009, March 2010 and September 2010, respectively. Our bargaining unit employees at Grundartangi are represented by five unions under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on December 31, 2009. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with any labor union representing our employees, our labor contracts may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of these facilities in the future. Any threatened or actual work stoppage in the future could prevent or significantly impair our ability to conduct production operations at our unionized facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations that could result in costs or liabilities. We are obligated to comply with various federal, state and other environmental laws and regulations, including the environmental laws and regulations of the United States, Iceland, the EU and Jamaica. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to costs or liabilities relating to our manufacturing operations or property ownership. We incur operating costs and capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we are currently and may in the future be responsible for the cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former facilities or for the amelioration of damage to natural resources. We, along with others, including current and former owners of a facility on St. Croix in the Virgin Islands, formerly owned by a subsidiary of ours, have been sued for alleged natural resources damages at the facility. In addition, in December 2006, Century and the company that purchased the assets of our St. Croix facility in 1995 were sued by the Commissioner of the U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Planning and Natural Resources, alleging our failure to take certain actions specified in a Virgin Islands Coastal Zone management permit issued to our subsidiary, Virgin Island Alumina Corporation LLC, in October 1994. In July 2006, Century was named as a defendant together with certain affiliates of Alcan Inc. in a lawsuit brought by Alcoa Inc. seeking to determine responsibility for certain environmental indemnity obligations related to the sale of a cast aluminum plate manufacturing facility located in Vernon, California, which we purchased from Alcoa Inc. in December 1998, and sold to Alcan Rolled Products-Ravenswood LLC in July 1999. Our known liabilities with respect to these and other matters relating to environmental compliance and cleanup, based on current information, are not expected to be material. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, previously unknown environmental conditions or damages to natural resources are discovered or alleged, or if contributions from other responsible parties with respect to sites for which we have cleanup responsibilities are not available, we may be subject to additional liability, which may be material and could affect our liquidity and our operating results. Further, additional environmental matters for which we may be liable may arise in the future at our present sites where no problem is currently known, with respect to sites previously owned or operated by us, by related corporate entities or by our predecessors, or at sites that we may acquire in the future. In addition, overall production costs may become prohibitively expensive and prevent us from effectively competing in price sensitive markets if future capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance or cleanup are significantly greater than current or projected expenditures and costs. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for additional information regarding our environmental matters and associated costs and risks. - 20 - - Table of Contents Acquisitions may present difficulties. We have a history of making acquisitions and we expect to make acquisitions in the future based on several factors, including if primary aluminum prices in the global market improve. We are subject to numerous risks as a result of our acquisition strategy, including the following: · we may spend time and money pursuing target acquisitions that do not close; · acquired companies may have contingent or hidden liabilities; · it may be challenging for us to manage our existing business as we integrate acquired operations; · we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions; and · management of acquisitions will require continued development of financial controls and information systems, which may prove to be expensive, time-consuming, and difficult to maintain. Accordingly, our past or future acquisitions might not ultimately improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated. International operations expose us to political, regulatory, currency and other related risks. Grundartangi was our first facility located outside of the United States, and it represents approximately 33% of our overall primary aluminum production capacity. In addition, we have begun to construct an aluminum smelter near Helguvik, Iceland. The St. Ann bauxite operations related to Gramercy are located in Jamaica. In April 2008, we purchased 40% of Baise Haohai Carbon Co., Ltd., a carbon anode and cathode facility located in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of south China. International operations expose us to risks, including unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations, political and economic instability, challenges in managing foreign operations, increased cost to adapt our systems and practices to those used in foreign countries, export duties, tariffs and other trade barriers, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. In addition, we may be exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and, as a result, an increase in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could increase our operating expenses which are denominated and payable in those currencies. Grundartangi’s revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, while its labor costs are denominated in ISK and a portion of its anode costs are denominated in euros. Economic, financial and political conditions in Iceland have deteriorated significantly. See “— If economic and political conditions in Iceland continue to deteriorate, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely impacted.” and “— Construction at our Helguvik smelter site is under review” above for more information. As we continue to explore other opportunities outside the U.S., including the Helguvik facility, our currency risk with respect to the ISK and other foreign currencies will significantly increase. Our historical financial information may not be comparable to our results for future periods. Our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For example, certain of our historical financial data do not reflect the effects of: · the 130,000 mtpy expansion capacity of Grundartangi that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2006; · the 40,000 mtpy expansion capacity of Grundartangi that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2007; and, · our results for 2008 also do not reflect the February 2009 curtailment of Ravenswood’s remaining three potlines. - 21 - - Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness requires significant cash flow to meet our debt service requirements, which reduces cash available for other purposes, such as the payment of dividends, and limits our ability to pursue our growth opportunities. We had an aggregate of approximately $458 million of outstanding indebtedness, including $25 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility, as of December 31, 2008. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting cash flow available for capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, working capital and other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; and, · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competitive and other changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. We have various obligations to make payments in cash that will reduce the amount of cash we have to service the interest on our outstanding debt and for other uses. We will be required to settle in cash at market prices up to the principal amount of our $175 million principal amount of convertible notes (which are convertible at market value by the holder at any time) upon conversion, which could increase our debt service obligations. In August 2011, the holders of these convertible notes have an option to require us to repurchase all or any portion of these securities at par. In addition to our indebtedness, we have liabilities and other obligations which could reduce cash available for other purposes and could limit our ability to pursue our growth opportunities. We are also exposed to risks of interest rate increases. Our industrial revenue bonds (“IRBs”) and any borrowings on our credit facility are at variable interest rates. Future borrowing required to fund working capital at Grundartangi or the construction of the Helguvik facility may be at variable rates. An increase in interest rates would increase our debt service obligations under these instruments, further limiting cash flow available for other uses. Our ability to pay interest and to repay or refinance our indebtedness, including our senior unsecured notes and convertible notes and to satisfy other commitments, will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, including market prices for primary aluminum, that are beyond our control, and access to additional sources of liquidity. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could attempt to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or seek additional equity or debt capital. There can be no assurance that we would be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Restrictive covenants in our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes limit our ability to incur additional debt and pursue our growth strategy. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes each contain various covenants that restrict the way we conduct our business and limit our ability to incur debt, pay dividends and engage in transactions such as acquisitions and investments, among other things, which may impair our ability to obtain additional liquidity and pursue our growth strategy. Any failure to comply with those covenants would likely constitute a breach under the revolving credit facility or the indenture governing the notes, which may result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness and termination of commitments under our revolving credit facility. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may be unable to repay the required amounts and our secured lenders could foreclose on any collateral securing our secured debt. - 22 - - Table of Contents Further consolidation within the metals industry could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. The metals industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years and there may be more consolidation transactions in the future. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity and their access to resources, lower their cost structure and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Continued consolidation may limit our ability to implement our strategic objectives effectively. We cannot reliably predict the impact on us of further consolidation in the metals industry. If we are unable to procure a reliable source of power, the Helguvik project would not be feasible. Our greenfield smelter near Helguvik, Iceland, will require generation and transmission of geothermally generated electricity to power the smelter. Our wholly owned Iceland subsidiary, Nordural Helguvik ehf, has entered into agreements with two providers of geothermal power in Iceland for a substantial portion of this power. These two power company agreements are subject to certain conditions, some of which are not expected to be satisfied until June 2009. These conditions include approvals by the boards of directors of the power companies, as well as environmental agency approvals for the power producing assets. Generation of the electrical power contracted for the Helguvik smelter will require successful development of new geothermal energy sources within designated areas in Iceland. If there are construction delays or technical difficulties in developing these new geothermal fields, power may be delayed or may not be available. Factors which could delay or impede the generation and delivery of electric power are substantially beyond our ability to control, influence or predict. In October 2007, Nordural signed a transmission agreement with Landsnet to provide an electrical power transmission system to the Helguvik smelter. If we are unable to proceed with the project, we would have to reimburse Landsnet for certain expenditures under this agreement. Reductions in the duty on primary aluminum imports into the European Union decrease our revenues at Grundartangi. Grundartangi’s tolling revenues include a premium based on the EU import duty for primary aluminum. In May 2007, the EU members reduced the import duty for primary aluminum from six percent to three percent and agreed to review the new duty after three years. This decrease in the EU import duty for primary aluminum negatively impacts Grundartangi’s revenues and further decreases would also have a negative impact on Grundartangi’s revenues. We depend upon intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends upon the receipt of intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries. Subject to the restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior and convertible notes, future borrowings by our subsidiaries could contain restrictions or prohibitions on the intercompany transfers by those subsidiaries. In addition, under applicable law, our subsidiaries could be limited in the amounts that they are permitted to pay as dividends on their capital stock. For example, the Icelandic government and the Central Bank of Iceland are restricting the free transfer of funds outside of Iceland. In furtherance of this, on November 28, 2008, the Central Bank of Iceland adopted rules regarding the movement of foreign currency within and outside of Iceland. The rules are broad and impose many restrictions on the movement of foreign currencies outside of Iceland. By letter dated January 23, 2009, we were notified that our Icelandic operations are exempt from these foreign currency rules. However, we cannot control further actions by the Central Bank of Iceland, which might restrict our ability to transfer funds through the Icelandic banking system and outside of Iceland. - 23 - - Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and state law may make it difficult for others to obtain control of Century Aluminum, even though some stockholders may consider them to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Century, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise have received a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, these provisions: · give authority to our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any stockholder vote; · provide, under our charter documents, for a board of directors consisting of three classes, each of which serves for a different three-year term; · require stockholders to give advance notice prior to submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders’ meetings or to nominate persons for election as directors; and · restrict, under our charter documents, certain business combinations between us and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, several of our officers have entered into employment and severance compensation agreements that provide for cash payments, immediate vesting of stock options and performance shares and acceleration of other benefits under certain circumstances, including a change in control of Century. Our 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, also provides for acceleration of the ability to exercise stock options and the vesting of performance shares upon a change in control, and our Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan provides for acceleration of an option holder’s ability to exercise stock options upon a change in control. Our relationship with Glencore may also deter a takeover. As of February 20, 2009, we believe that Glencore beneficially owned, through common stock and preferred stock ownership, approximately 38.1% of our issued and outstanding common stock and an overall 48.9% economic ownership of Century. In addition, we have extensive commercial dealings with Glencore. We have agreed with Glencore that if we make a widely distributed public offering for cash and Glencore is not permitted to maintain its economic ownership of us at 47% in such offering, Glencore can purchase in the open market enough voting securities to maintain its 47% economic ownership interest of us. Under the terms of our Standstill and Governance Agreement, Glencore agreed that through April 7, 2009, Glencore may not vote more than 28.5% of our common stock, nor, subject to certain limited exceptions, acquire more than 28.5% of our voting securities. Any voting securities held by Glencore in excess of 28.5% until April 8, 2009, will be voted by our Board of Directors. Upon Glencore’s participation in our January 2009 equity offering, we entered into an agreement with Glencore to amend the terms of our Standstill and Governance Agreement to increase the percentage of our voting securities that Glencore may acquire prior to April 7, 2009 and to allow Glencore to exercise voting rights with respect to any shares of our common stock it purchased in the January 2009 offering. As a result, currently until April 7, 2009 Glencore has voting rights with respect to approximately 37% of the outstanding voting securities and thereafter would voting rights with respect to approximately 38.1% of our outstanding voting securities. See Note 13 Shareholders’ Equity —Preferred Stock — Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. Subject to certain limited exceptions, from April 8, 2009 to January 7, 2010, Glencore may not acquire more than 49% of our voting securities. Glencore also has agreed to forego or restrict certain actions, including unsolicited business combination proposals, tender offers, proxy contests and sales of its common and preferred shares for a limited period of time. These limitations on Glencore’s ability to acquire voting securities and seek control of Century could deter a takeover by Glencore. Glencore’s substantial ownership interest in us and our other commercial dealings with Glencore could have the effect of deterring a takeover bid by a third party. - 24 - - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 