Item 1A Risk Factors 13 Item 1B Unresolved SEC Comments 19 Item 2 Properties 19 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 20 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Repurchase of Equity Securities 20 Item 6 Selected Consolidated Financial Data 20 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 36 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B Other Information 85 Part III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 86 Item 11 Executive Compensation 91 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 96 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 98 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 100 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 101 2 PART I Throughout this Form 10-K, and unless expressly stated otherwise or as the context otherwise requires, “Century Aluminum,” “Century,” “we,” “us,” “our” and “ours” refer to Century Aluminum Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on current expectations and projections about future events. Many of these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “believes,” “projects,” “estimates,” “intends,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “will,” “potential” and similar words. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions including, among other things, those discussed under Part I, Item 1, “Business,” Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and: • Our high level of indebtedness reduces cash available for other purposes and limits our ability to incur additional debt and pursue our growth strategy; • The cyclical nature of the aluminum industry causes variability in our earnings and cash flows; • The loss of a customer to whom we deliver molten aluminum would increase our production costs; • Glencore International AG owns a large percentage of our common stock and has the ability to influence matters requiring shareholder approval; • We could suffer losses due to a temporary or prolonged interruption of the supply of electrical power to one or more of our facilities, which can be caused by unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment failure, natural disasters or other catastrophic events; • Due to volatile prices for alumina and electricity, the principal cost components of primary aluminum production, our production costs could be materially impacted if we experience changes to or disruptions in our current alumina or power supply arrangements, production costs at our alumina refining operation increase significantly, or if we are unable to obtain economic replacement contracts for our alumina supply or power for those portions of our power requirements that are currently unpriced; • By expanding our geographic presence and diversifying our operations through the acquisition of bauxite mining, alumina refining and additional aluminum reduction assets, we are exposed to new risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the overall profitability of our business; • Changes in the relative cost of certain raw materials and energy compared to the price of primary aluminum could affect our margins; • Most of our employees are unionized and any labor dispute or failure to successfully renegotiate an existing labor agreement could materially impair our ability to conduct our production operations at our unionized facilities; • We are subject to a variety of existing environmental laws that could result in unanticipated costs or liabilities; • We may not realize the expected benefits of our growth strategy if we are unable to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire; and • We cannot guarantee that our subsidiary Nordural will be able to complete its expansion in the time forecast or without significant cost overruns or that we will be able to realize the expected benefits of the expansion. We believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, based on information available to us on the date of this filing. However, given the described uncertainties and risks, we cannot guarantee our future performance or results of operations and you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks described above and 3 elsewhere in this report, including in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” should be considered when reading any forward-looking statements in this filing. We have obtained the market data used throughout this Form 10-K from our own research and from surveys or studies conducted by third parties and cited in industry or general publications, including studies prepared by CRU International Inc., an internationally recognized research firm which collects and analyzes data about the aluminum industry. Industry and general publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable, but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. We have not independently verified such data and do not make any representation as to its accuracy. Similarly, we believe our internal research is reliable but it has not been verified by any independent sources. Item 1. Business Overview Prior to our initial public offering in April 1996, we were an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Glencore International AG (together with its subsidiaries, “Glencore”). As of March 10, 2006, Glencore, our largest shareholder, owned 28.8% of our outstanding common stock. We produce primary aluminum. Our primary aluminum facilities produce value-added and standard-grade primary aluminum products. We are the third largest primary aluminum producer in North America, behind Alcoa Inc. (together with its affiliates, “Alcoa”) and Alcan Inc. (together with its affiliates, “Alcan”). In April 2004, we acquired the Nordural facility, an Icelandic primary aluminum facility which became our first production facility located outside of the United States. We produced approximately 616,000 metric tons of primary aluminum in 2005 with net sales of approximately $1,132 million. Our current primary aluminum annual production capacity is 617,000 metric tons. With the completion of an ongoing expansion projects at Nordural, our rated production capacity will increase to 745,000 metric tons by the fourth quarter of 2006, with the possibility of further expansion to 785,000 metric tons by late 2008. We also own 50% joint venture interests in the Gramercy alumina refinery, located in Gramercy, Louisiana and a related bauxite mining operations in Jamaica. The Gramercy refinery supplies all of the alumina used for the production of primary aluminum at our Hawesville facility. Current Primary Aluminum Facilities: Ownership Facility Location Operational Capacity Percent (metric tons per year) Nordural(1) Grundartangi, Iceland 1998 90,000 100 % Hawesville Hawesville, Kentucky, USA 1970 244,000 100 % Ravenswood Ravenswood, West Virginia, USA 1957 170,000 100 % Mt. Holly(2) Mount Holly, South Carolina, USA 1980 227,000 49.7 % (1) Nordural’s rated production capacity is scheduled to increase to 220,000 metric tons per year by the fourth quarter of 2006. Further expansion to 260,000 metric tons per year is projected for late 2008. (2) Alcoa holds the remaining 50.3% ownership interest. Century’s share of Mt. Holly’s capacity is approximately 113,000 metric tons per year. 4 Bauxite and Alumina: Our Ownership Facility Location Type Capacity Percent Gramercy Gramercy, Louisiana, USA Alumina Refinery 1.25 million metric tons per year 50 % St. Ann Limited(1) St. Ann, Jamaica Bauxite 4.5 million dry metric tons per year 50 % (1) St. Ann Bauxite Limited (“SABL”) is entitled to mine 4.5 million dry metric tons (“DMT”) of bauxite on specified lands annually through September 30, 2030. The government of Jamaica is required to provide additional land if the land covered by the mining rights does not contain sufficient levels of commercially exploitable bauxite. SABL is responsible for reclamation of the land that it mines. Our strategic objectives are to: (i) expand our primary aluminum business by investing in or acquiring additional capacity that offers favorable returns and lowers our per unit production costs; (ii) diversify our geographic presence; and (iii) pursue opportunities in bauxite mining and alumina refining. The following table shows our primary aluminum shipment volumes since 1999 (the year in which we completed a divesture of our rolling and fabrication businesses). To date, our growth activities have included: • acquiring an additional 23% interest in the Mt. Holly facility (“Mt. Holly”) in April 2000; • acquiring an 80% interest in the Hawesville facility (“Hawesville”) in April 2001; • acquiring the remaining 20% interest in Hawesville in April 2003; • acquiring the Nordural facility (“Nordural”) in April 2004; • acquiring through a joint venture the Gramercy facility (“Gramercy”), our first alumina refining facility, together with related bauxite mining assets in October 2004, and; • an expansion of Nordural’s production capacity to 220,000 metric tons of primary aluminum, which is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2006. Recent Developments More information on our recent developments is available in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. 5 Industry Overview Primary aluminum is an internationally traded commodity, and its price is effectively determined on the London Metal Exchange (“LME”). The LME price generally reflects the worldwide balance of primary aluminum supply and demand, but may be influenced significantly from time to time by currency exchange rates and speculative actions. The LME price, however, does not represent the actual price paid for all aluminum products. For example, products delivered to U.S. customers are often sold at a premium to the LME price, typically referred to as the U.S. Midwest Market Price. Over the last 10 years through December 2005, the average monthly Midwest premium has ranged from $46 to $170 per metric ton ($111 per metric ton for December 2005 delivery). Premiums are also charged for adding certain alloys to aluminum for use in specific applications and for casting aluminum into specific shapes, such as extrusion billet or rolling slab. The primary aluminum industry is currently experiencing a period of strong prices based on constrained production and increasing demand. Spot aluminum prices, as quoted on the LME, remain well above the five and 10-year averages. The key factors in the current strong pricing environment are: (i) strong global demand for aluminum driven by global economic growth; (ii) strong demand growth in China; (iii) a tightening market for alumina, the major raw material input for aluminum, that has resulted in a rapid escalation of alumina prices; and (iv) increased cost pressures from rising electricity and raw material inputs on high-cost producers in Europe, China, and the United States resulting in idled production capacity and plant closure. During 2005, global demand increased approximately 5.1%. Despite growth in production, LME inventories of aluminum remained historically low. Low inventories together with higher costs for alumina and power, pushed the market price for primary aluminum to record prices in 2005. During 2004, global demand increased by 9.0% to 30.1 million metric tons and LME inventories declined 54% from 1.5 million metric tons to 695,000 metric tons. In 2003, global demand for aluminum increased approximately 7.7% to 27.2 million metric tons, but global aluminum supply increased only approximately 7.1%. The average LME cash price for aluminum was $1,899, $1,716, and $1,432 per metric ton for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Through February 28, 2006, the LME cash price for primary aluminum for 2006 averaged $2,419 per metric ton. Competition The market for primary aluminum is global, and demand for aluminum varies widely from region to region. Aluminum is produced throughout the world. Aluminum competes with materials such as steel, plastic and glass, which may be substituted for aluminum in certain applications. Today, the U.S. demand for aluminum is robust and U.S. production capacity has declined substantially over the past few years in the face of rising electrical power costs. As a consequence, much of the U.S. demand must be met by foreign production, and delivery premiums to the U.S. Midwest (reflecting cost of delivery to this market) have risen in 2005. The geographic proximity of our plants to the U.S. Midwest provides us with a competitive advantage over our off-shore competitors by enabling us to capture this premium without incurring the additional delivery costs. We also have certain advantages in product quality. Our Hawesville plant produces the high purity aluminum needed by Southwire, one of our largest customers, for the manufacture of electrical transmission lines. Hawesville delivers high purity metal in molten form to Southwire’s adjacent facility, at a cost savings and competitive advantage to both parties. Our Ravenswood plant also delivers molten metal to Alcan’s adjacent rolling mill, providing similar competitive advantages to Ravenswood and Alcan. Our versatile cast house at Mt. Holly produces premium products almost exclusively. In addition, Icelandic aluminum producers are exempt from the duty payable by other non-European producers for sales of aluminum into Europe. Icelandic aluminum producers are exempt from this duty. The alumina toll conversion agreements between our Nordural subsidiary and third parties allow Nordural share in the premium those third parties earn on as a result of these duty-free sales into Europe. 6 Customer Base In 2005, we derived a combined total of 84.8% of our consolidated sales from our four largest customers, as shown in the table below. A loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We currently have long-term primary aluminum sales contracts with all of these customers. More information about these contracts is available at “Key Long-term Primary Aluminum Sales Contracts” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 $(000) % $(000) % $(000) % Alcan 356,347 31.5 301,033 28.4 198,448 25.4 Southwire 294,468 26.0 258,320 24.4 199,067 25.4 Glencore 171,027 15.1 163,209 15.4 121,886 15.6 BHP Billiton 137,736 12.2 85,518 8.1 — — All other customers 172,784 15.2 252,667 23.7 263,078 33.6 Total 1,132,362 100.0 1,060,747 100.0 782,479 100.0 Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate in one reportable segment, primary aluminum. More information about the primary aluminum segment and certain geographic information is available in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. For a description of certain risks attendant to our foreign operations, see “Risk Factors — Operating in foreign countries exposes us to political, regulatory, currency and other related risks.” Energy, Key Supplies and Raw Materials We consume the following key supplies and raw materials in the primary aluminum reduction process: • electricity • alumina • labor • aluminum fluoride • carbon • cathode blocks • liquid pitch • natural gas • silicon carbide • caustic soda • calcined petroleum coke Electrical power, alumina, and labor are the principal components of cost of goods sold. These components together represented over 70 percent of our 2005 cost of goods sold. We have long-term contracts to ensure the future availability of many of these supplies. More information about these long-term supply contracts is available at “Key Long-term Supply Contracts” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Pricing Our operating results are sensitive to changes in the price of primary aluminum and the raw materials used in our production. As a result, Century attempts to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in primary aluminum and raw material prices through the use of various fixed-price commitments and financial instruments. We offer a number of pricing alternatives to our customers which, combined with our metals risk management activities, are designed to lock in a certain level of price stability on our primary aluminum sales. Pricing of Century’s products is generally offered at an indexed or “market” price, in which the customer pays an agreed-upon premium over the LME price or other market indices. 7 Substantially all of Nordural’s revenues are derived from a tolling arrangement whereby it converts alumina provided to it by its customers into primary aluminum for a fee based on the LME price for primary aluminum. Nordural’s revenues are subject to the risk of decreases in the market price of primary aluminum; however, because it produces primary aluminum under a tolling arrangement, Nordural is not exposed to fluctuations in the price for alumina, the principal raw material used in the production of primary aluminum. In addition, under its current power contract, Nordural purchases power at a rate which is a percentage of the LME price for primary aluminum. By linking its most significant production cost to the LME price for primary aluminum, Nordural is hedged against downswings in the market for primary aluminum; however, this hedge also limits Nordural’s upside as the LME price increases. Primary Aluminum Facilities Nordural The Nordural facility (“Nordural”) is located in Grundartangi, Iceland and is owned and operated by our subsidiary, Nordural. Nordural is our most modern and lowest cost facility. Operations at Nordural began in 1998 and production capacity was expanded in 2001 and again in 2006. It has an annual rated production capacity of 90,000 metric tons, which will increase by 130,000 metric tons to 220,000 metric tons upon completion of an expansion of the facility, which is expected in the fourth quarter of 2006, with further possible expansion to 260,000 metric tons of annual rated production capacity by late 2008. Nordural operates under various long-term agreements with the Government of Iceland, local municipalities, and Faxafloahafnir sf (which operates the harbor at Grundartangi and is jointly owned by several municipalities. These agreements include: (i) an investment agreement which establishes Nordural’s tax status and the Government’s obligations to grant certain permits; (ii) a reduction plant site agreement by which Nordural leases the property through 2020, subject to renewal at its option; and (iii) a harbor agreement by which Nordural is granted access to the port at Grundartangi. In connection with the expansion of Nordural, Nordural has entered into amendments to the investment agreement and the reduction plant site agreements with the Government of Iceland. Expansion Project. We are currently expanding Nordural to increase its annual production capacity to 220,000 metric tons. As currently planned, the expansion will add 130,000 metric tons to Nordural’s annual rated production capacity at an estimated total cost of approximately $475 million. A phased start-up of the expansion capacity began in February 2006 and the expansion is projected to be completed by the fourth quarter of 2006 at an estimated total cost of approximately $475 million. Following completion of the expansion, Nordural will have all the infrastructure and support facilities necessary for further expansion to 260,000 metric tons of annual production capacity. On February 10, 2005, Nordural executed agreements and documents related to a $365 million senior term loan facility arranged by Landsbanki Islands hf. and Kaupthing Bank hf. More information about the Nordural term loan facility is available in Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Based on current conditions, we expect to fund the remaining costs of the expansion capacity with operating cash flow generated by Nordural operations. Tolling Agreements. Nordural has a long-term alumina tolling contract with a subsidiary of BHP Billiton which expires December 31, 2013. Under this contract, which is for virtually all of Nordural’s 90,000 metric tons of existing production capacity and 40,000 metric tons of the expansion capacity, Nordural receives an LME-based fee for the conversion of alumina, supplied by BHP Billiton, into primary aluminum. Nordural has entered into a 10-year alumina tolling contract with Glencore for 90,000 metric tons of the expansion capacity at Nordural. The fee Nordural will receive under the Glencore contract will also be LME-based. In December 2005, Glencore assigned 50% of its tolling rights under this agreement to Hydro Aluminum AS for the period 2007 to 2010. Nordural consented to the assignment. Power. Landsvirkjun, a power company jointly owned by the Republic of Iceland and two Icelandic municipal governments, provides power to Nordural for 90,000 metric tons of capacity under a long-term contract due to expire in 2019. The power delivered by Landsvirkjun is priced at a rate based on the LME 8 price for primary aluminum and is from hydroelectric and geothermal sources. For the expansion, Nordural entered into an agreement with Hitaveita Sudurnesja hf. (“HS”) and Orkuveita Reykjavíkur (“OR”) to supply the power required for the additional 130,000 metric tons of capacity. Under this agreement, Nordural will be required to take or pay for a significant percentage of the power to be supplied for a specified period that begins after signing (subject to extension for agreed upon events), even if the Nordural expansion is not completed. The price paid by Nordural for power delivered by HS and OR is also LME-based. Landsvirkjun has agreed on a best commercial efforts basis to provide backup power to Nordural if HS and OR are unable to meet the obligations of their contract to provide power for the Nordural expansion. OR has agreed to deliver additional power annually, which will allow a further expansion to 260,000 metric tons by late 2008. The power agreement and the construction of additional production capacity are each subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We are considering various options for financing the additional capacity expansion from 220,000 to 260,000 metric tons. Employees. In Iceland, our employees at Nordural are represented by six labor unions that operate under a labor contract approved in April 2005 that establishes wages and work rules for covered employees for the period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2009. Hawesville Hawesville is owned by our subsidiary, Century Kentucky, Inc. Hawesville is located adjacent to the Ohio River near Hawesville, Kentucky and began operations in 1970. Hawesville has five reduction potlines with an annual rated production capacity of 244,000 metric tons. Hawesville’s original four potlines have an annual production capacity of approximately 195,000 metric tons and are specially configured and operated to produce high purity primary aluminum. The average purity level of primary aluminum produced by these potlines is 99.9%, compared to standard-purity aluminum which is approximately 99.7%. High purity primary aluminum is sold at a premium to standard-purity aluminum. The high purity primary aluminum also provides the conductivity required by Hawesville’s largest customer, Southwire, for its electrical wire and cable products as well as for certain aerospace applications. A fifth potline added in 2001 has an annual capacity of approximately 49,000 metric tons of standard-purity aluminum. In April 2005, we paid Southwire a $7,000 post-closing payment related to the acquisition of the Hawesville facility. This payment satisfied in full our obligation to pay contingent consideration to Southwire under the acquisition agreement. Metal Sales Agreement. Hawesville has a long-term contract with Southwire (the “Southwire Metal Agreement”). The Southwire Metal Agreement’s expires March 31, 2011, subject to automatic renewal for additional five-year terms, unless either party provides 12 months’ notice that it has elected not to renew. The price for the molten aluminum delivered to Southwire is variable and is determined by reference to the U.S. Midwest Market Price. Under the contract, Hawesville supplies 240 million pounds (approximately 109,000 metric tons) of high-purity molten aluminum annually to Southwire’s adjacent wire and cable manufacturing facility. Under this contract, Southwire will also purchase 60 million pounds (approximately 27,000 metric tons) of standard-grade molten aluminum each year through March 2010. Southwire has an option to purchase an equal amount of standard-grade molten aluminum in for 2011. More information about this long-term contract is available at “Key Long-term Primary Aluminum Sales Contracts” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Alumina. The alumina used by Hawesville is purchased under a supply agreement with Gramercy Alumina LLC (“GAL”). GAL is a joint venture company owned by Century and Falconbridge Limited (as successor by merger to Noranda Inc., “Falconbridge”), which owns and operates the Gramercy alumina refinery. The alumina supply agreement runs through December 31, 2010 and the contract pricing varies based on GAL’s cost of production. More information about this long-term contract is available at “Key Long-term Supply Contracts” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Power. Hawesville purchases all of its power from Kenergy Corp. (“Kenergy”), a local retail electric cooperative, under a power supply contract. Kenergy acquires most of the power it provides to Hawesville from 9 a subsidiary of LG&E Energy Corp., with delivery guaranteed by LG&E. Hawesville has unpriced power requirements of 130 MW or 27% of its power requirements from 2007 through 2010. We are working with Big Rivers Electric Corporation and Kenergy Corporation on a proposal that would restructure and extend the existing power supply contract from 2007 through 2023. Employees. The bargaining unit employees at Hawesville are represented by the United Steelworkers of America (“USWA”). Century’s collective bargaining agreement, which covers all of the represented hourly employees at Hawesville, expires March 31, 2006. Ravenswood The Ravenswood facility (“Ravenswood”) is owned and operated by our subsidiary, Century Aluminum of West Virginia, Inc. (“Century of West Virginia”). Built in 1957, Ravenswood operates four potlines with an annual rated production capacity of 170,000 metric tons. The facility is located adjacent to the Ohio River in Ravenswood, West Virginia. Metal Sales Agreements. Ravenswood produces molten aluminum that is delivered to Alcan’s adjacent fabricating facility and standard-grade ingot that we sell in the marketplace. We have a contract (the “Alcan Metal Agreement”) with Alcan under which Alcan purchases 23 to 27 million pounds (approximately 10,500 to 12,250 metric tons) per month of molten aluminum produced at Ravenswood through July 31, 2007. The price for primary aluminum delivered under the Alcan Metal Agreement is variable and determined by reference to the U.S. Midwest Market Price. This contract requires us to deliver molten aluminum, which reduces our casting and shipping costs. Alcan has the right, upon 12 months’ notice, to reduce its purchase obligations by 50% under this contract. Ravenswood also sells 10,000 metric tons per year of primary aluminum under a 10-year contract with Glencore (the “Glencore Metal Agreement II”) through December 31, 2013. Under the Glencore Metal Agreement II, Glencore agrees to purchase 20,000 metric tons per year of the primary aluminum produced at Ravenswood and Mt. Holly facilities, at a price determined by reference to the U.S. Midwest Market Price, subject to an agreed cap and floor as applied to the U.S. Midwest Premium. Alumina. Glencore supplies the alumina used at Ravenswood under a contract that expires on December 31, 2006. The contract pricing varies based on the LME price for primary aluminum. We are currently assessing our options for future alumina purchases to replace the Glencore contract. Power. During 2005, we purchased all of the electricity requirements for Ravenswood from Ohio Power Company, a unit of American Electric Power Company, under a fixed price power supply agreement that ran through December 31, 2005. Under Ravenswood’s new power contract, Appalachian Power Company has agreed to continuously supply power to Ravenswood. After December 31, 2007, we may terminate the agreement by providing 12 months notice of termination. Power delivered under the new power supply agreement is priced as set forth in currently published tariffs. Appalachian Power Company filed a rate case on September 26, 2005, seeking increases in its tariff rates. We have been advised to expect those rates to become effective on July 1, 2006. We intend to contest the rate increase. Employees. The bargaining unit employees at Ravenswood are represented by the USWA. The collective bargaining agreement that covers all of the represented hourly employees at Ravenswood expires May 31, 2006. Mt. Holly Mt. Holly, located in Mt. Holly, South Carolina, was built in 1980 and is the most recently constructed aluminum reduction facility in the United States. The facility consists of two potlines with a total annual rated production capacity of 227,000 metric tons and casting equipment used to cast molten aluminum into standard-grade ingot, extrusion billet and other value-added primary aluminum products. Value-added primary aluminum products are sold at a premium to standard-grade primary aluminum. Our 49.7% interest represents approximately 113,000 metric tons of the facility’s production capacity. Our interest in Mt. Holly is held through our subsidiary, Berkeley Aluminum, Inc. (“Berkeley”). Under the Mt. Holly ownership structure, we hold an undivided 49.7% interest in the property, plant and equipment 10 comprising the aluminum reduction operations at Mt. Holly and an equivalent share in the general partnership responsible for the operation and maintenance of the facility. Alcoa owns the remaining 50.3% interest in Mt. Holly and an equivalent share of the operating partnership. Under the terms of the operating partnership, Alcoa is responsible for operating and maintaining the facility. Each owner supplies its own alumina for conversion to primary aluminum and is responsible for its proportionate share of operational and maintenance costs. Metal Sales Agreements. We have a contract to sell to Glencore 50,000 metric tons of primary aluminum produced at Mt. Holly each year through December 31, 2009 (the “Glencore Metal Agreement I”). The Glencore Metal Agreement I provides for variable pricing determined by reference to the quoted LME price of primary aluminum. Mt. Holly also sells 10,000 metric tons per year of primary aluminum under the Glencore Metal Agreement II. More information on the Glencore Metal Agreement II is available under “Ravenswood” above or under “Key Long-term Primary Aluminum Sales Contracts” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Alumina. Glencore supplies all of our alumina requirements for Mt. Holly under two contracts which expire December 31, 2006 and January 31, 2008. The contract expiring December 31, 2006 supplies 54% of alumina requirements at Mt. Holly. The price under both contracts is determined by reference to the quoted LME price for primary aluminum. We recently entered into an agreement with Trafigura AG that provides us with sufficient supplies of alumina to cover all of Mt. Holly’s alumina requirements when our agreements with Glencore expire in 2006 and 2008. The price for alumina under our contract with Trafigura will also be variable and based on the LME price for primary aluminum. Power. Mt. Holly purchases all of its power requirements from the South Carolina Public Service Authority (“SCPSA”) under a contract that runs through 2015. Power delivered through 2010 will be priced at rates fixed under currently published schedules, subject to adjustments to cover SCPSA’s fuel costs. Rates for the period 2011 through 2015 will be as provided under then-applicable schedules. Employees. The employees at Mt. Holly are employed by Alcoa and are not unionized. Joint Venture Facilities On October 1, 2004, Century and Falconbridge through joint venture companies, acquired an alumina refinery in Gramercy, Louisiana and related bauxite mining assets in Jamaica (collectively, the “Gramercy assets”) from Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Company (“Kaiser”). Gramercy Alumina LLC The alumina refinery in Gramercy, owned by GAL, began operations in 1959 and consists of a production facility, a powerhouse for steam and electricity production, a deep water dock and a barge loading facility. Extensive portions of the Gramercy plant were rebuilt and modernized between 2000 and 2002, including a double digestion system. Alumina Operations. The Gramercy plant has an annual rated capacity rate of 1.25 million metric tons of alumina per year. Gramercy’s production consists of approximately 80% smelter grade alumina and 20% alumina hydrate or chemical grade alumina. GAL sells smelter grade alumina to Hawesville based on Gramercy’s production costs under an alumina supply contract due to expire on December 31, 2010. All of the chemical grade alumina production is currently sold under existing short-term and long-term contracts with approximately 20 third party purchasers. We expect production at the Gramercy plant to remain at or near capacity for the foreseeable future. Supply Agreements. Bauxite is the principal raw material used in the production of alumina, and natural gas is the principal energy source. The Gramercy plant purchases all of its bauxite requirements from SABL under a contract that expires at the end of 2010. The Gramercy plant purchases its natural gas requirements at market prices under short-term agreements with local suppliers. 11 St. Ann Bauxite Limited SABL, which owns the bauxite mining assets, is jointly owned by Century and Falconbridge. The bauxite mining assets are comprised of: (i) a concession from the Government of Jamaica (“GOJ”) to mine bauxite in Jamaica (the “mining rights,”) and (ii) a 49% interest in a Jamaican partnership that owns certain mining assets in Jamaica (the “mining assets.”) The GOJ owns the remaining 51% interest in the partnership. Following the acquisition, SABL and the GOJ established a new partnership to hold the mining assets and to conduct mining and related operations pursuant to the mining rights. The mining assets consist primarily of rail facilities, other mobile equipment, dryers, and loading and dock facilities. Bauxite Mining Rights. Under the terms of the mining rights, SABL manages the operations of the new partnership, pays operating costs and is entitled to all of its bauxite production. The GOJ receives: (i) a royalty based on the amount of bauxite mined, (ii) an annual “asset usage fee” for the use of the GOJ’s 51% interest in the mining assets, and (iii) certain fees for lands owned by the GOJ that are covered by the mining rights. SABL also pays to the GOJ customary income taxes and certain other fees pursuant to an agreement with the GOJ that establishes a fiscal regime for SABL. A production levy normally applicable to bauxite mined in Jamaica has been waived for SABL through December 2007. If the levy is subsequently assessed on bauxite produced by SABL, the Establishment Agreement provides that certain payments to the GOJ will be reduced and SABL and GOJ will negotiate amendments to SABL’s fiscal regime in order to mitigate the effects of the levy. Under the terms of the mining rights, SABL mines the land covered by the mining rights and the GOJ retains surface rights and ownership of the land. The GOJ granted the mining rights and entered into other agreements with SABL for the purpose of ensuring the Gramercy plant will have sufficient reserves to meet its annual alumina requirements and existing or contemplated future obligations under third party contracts. Under the mining rights, SABL is entitled to mine 4.5 million dry metric tons of bauxite on specified lands annually through September 30, 2030. The GOJ is required to provide additional land if the land covered by the mining rights does not contain sufficient levels of commercially exploitable bauxite. SABL is responsible for reclamation of the land that it mines. In addition, SABL assumed reclamation obligations related to the prior owner’s operations of approximately $9 million. Customers. Most of the bauxite from St. Ann is refined into alumina at the Gramercy refinery and the remainder is sold to a third party alumina refinery in Texas. SABL and GAL have a contract under which SABL will supply the Gramercy plant’s bauxite requirements through December 2010. The price for bauxite under the contract was fixed through December 31, 2005, and an extension of this fixed price through 2008 has been conditionally accepted by the GOJ. SABL has various short-term agreements with third parties for the supply of fuel oil, diesel fuel, container leasing and other locally provided services. Environmental Matters We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. We have spent, and expect to spend, significant amounts for compliance with those laws and regulations. In addition, some of our past manufacturing activities have resulted in environmental consequences which require remedial measures. Under certain environmental laws which may impose liability regardless of fault, we may be liable for the costs of remediation of contaminated property, including our current and formerly owned or operated properties or adjacent areas, or for the amelioration of damage to natural resources. We believe, based on currently available information, that our current environmental liabilities are not likely to have a material adverse effect on Century. However, we cannot predict the requirements of future environmental laws and future requirements at current or formerly owned or operated properties or adjacent areas. Such future requirements may result in liabilities which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. More information concerning our environmental contingencies can be found in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. 12 Intellectual Property We own or have rights to use a number of patents or patent applications relating to various aspects of our operations. We do not consider our business to be materially dependent on any of these patents or patent applications. Employees We employ a work force of approximately 1,750, consisting of 1,460 hourly employees and 290 salaried employees. Available Information Additional information about Century may be obtained from our website, which is located at www.centuryaluminum.com. Our website provides access to filings we have made through the SEC’s EDGAR filing system, including our annual, quarterly and current reports filed on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, respectively, and ownership reports filed on Forms 3, 4 and 5 after December 16, 2002 by our directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. These filings are also available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, we will make available free of charge copies of our Form 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs, and Form 8-Ks upon request. Requests for these documents can be made by contacting our Investor Relations Department by mail at: 2511 Garden Road, Suite A200, Monterey, CA 93940, or phone at: (831) 642-9300. Information contained in our website is not incorporated by reference in, and should not be considered a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following describes certain of the risks and uncertainties we face that could cause our future results to differ materially from our current results and from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements. These risk factors should be considered together with the other risks and uncertainties described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere herein. The cyclical nature of the aluminum industry causes variability in our earnings and cash flows. Our operating results depend on the market for primary aluminum, which is a highly cyclical commodity affected by global demand and supply conditions. Historically, global demand and prices for primary aluminum have fluctuated in part due to economic and market conditions in the United States and other major global economies, as well as currency fluctuations. The relative pricing of other materials, such as steel, plastic and glass, which are used as alternatives for aluminum in some applications, also affects demand for aluminum. Certain aluminum end-use markets, including the automotive sector and the building and construction sector, are also cyclical. When downturns occur in these sectors, demand for primary aluminum decreases, resulting in lower prices for our products. Over the past 10 years, the average annual cash price for primary aluminum on the LME was $1,522 per metric ton and has ranged from a low of $1,182 per metric tons in 1999 to a high of $2,668 per metric ton in February 2006. The average LME cash price for aluminum was $1,899, $1,716, and $1,432 per metric ton for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Primary aluminum prices could decline below current levels, reducing our earnings and cash flows. A prolonged downturn in prices for primary aluminum could significantly reduce the amount of cash available to meet our current obligations and fund our long-term business strategies and may force the curtailment of all or a portion of our operations at one or more of our smelters. Conversely, if prices increase, certain of our hedging transactions, including our forward sales of primary aluminum and our LME-based alumina contracts, may limit our ability to take advantage of the increased prices. More information about Century’s market risks is available in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 13 We reduce our casting and shipping costs by selling molten aluminum to the major customers of our Ravenswood and Hawesville facilities; the loss of one of these major customers would increase our production costs at those facilities. A combined total of 57% of our consolidated net sales for 2005 were derived from sales to Alcan and Southwire Company. Alcan’s facility is located adjacent to Ravenswood and Southwire’s facility is located adjacent to Hawesville. Due to this proximity, we are able to deliver molten aluminum to these customers, thereby eliminating our casting and shipping costs and our customers’ remelting costs. Century has contracts with Alcan and Southwire which are due to expire at the end of July 2007 and at the end of 2011, respectively. Alcan has the right to reduce its purchases under its contract by 50%, upon 12 months’ notice, and Southwire has the right to reduce purchases under its contract by 20% beginning in 2010. We may be unable to extend or replace these contracts when they terminate. If we are unable to renew these contracts when they expire, or if either customer significantly reduces its purchases under those contracts, we will incur higher casting and shipping costs. A material change in our relationship with Glencore could affect how we purchase raw materials, sell our products and hedge our exposure to metal price risk. We benefit from our relationship with Glencore, our largest shareholder. We have entered into various long-term contracts with Glencore to sell up to 11.3% of our current annual primary aluminum production and to purchase up to 46.0% of our annual alumina requirements under contracts expiring at various dates from the end of 2006 through 2013. In addition, our subsidiary Nordural has entered into an alumina tolling agreement with Glencore for 90,000 metric tons of the expansion capacity at Nordural. In December 2005, Glencore assigned 50% of its tolling rights under this agreement to Hydro Aluminum AS for the period 2007 to 2010. Nordural consented to the assignment. We also enter into forward sales and hedging contracts with Glencore that help us manage our exposure to fluctuating aluminum prices. Because Glencore is a major customer, supplier and metal hedge counterparty, a material change in our relationship with Glencore, could affect how we purchase raw materials, sell our products and hedge our exposure to metal price risk, which could impact our operating costs. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of power would reduce the profitability of our operations. We use large amounts of electricity to produce primary aluminum, and any loss of power which causes an equipment shutdown can result in the hardening or “freezing” of molten aluminum in the pots where it is produced. We may incur losses due to a temporary or prolonged interruption of the supply of electrical power to our facilities, which can be caused by unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment failure, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. If such a condition were to occur, we may lose production for a prolonged period of time and incur significant losses. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, we may be required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, the coverage under those policies may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not cover certain events. Certain of our insurance policies do not cover any losses that may be incurred if our suppliers are unable to provide power during periods of unusually high demand. Certain losses which are not covered by insurance may trigger a default under our revolving credit facility. Changes or disruptions to our current alumina supply arrangements could increase our raw material costs. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for alumina, the principal raw material used to produce primary aluminum. Supply of alumina has been constrained over the past three years, and the construction of new production facilities requires substantial lead time. Disruptions to our supply of alumina could occur for a variety of reasons, including disruptions of production at a particular supplier’s alumina refinery. These disruptions may require Century to purchase alumina on less favorable terms than under our current agreements. Spot alumina prices are currently substantially higher than the prices we pay under our long-term agreements. 14 Glencore supplies the alumina used at Ravenswood under a contract that expires on December 31, 2006. We are currently assessing our options for future alumina purchases to replace the Glencore contract. Century and Falconbridge, through joint venture companies, purchased in 2004 the Gramercy alumina refinery that supplies the alumina used at Hawesville. As part of the acquisition, the joint venture also purchased an interest in a Jamaican partnership that owns bauxite mining assets in St. Ann, Jamaica. Bauxite is the principal raw material used in the production of alumina and all of the bauxite used at the Gramercy alumina refinery is purchased from the Jamaican partnership. If there is a significant disruption of bauxite shipments in the future, the joint venture could incur additional costs if it is required to use bauxite from other sources. The cost of alumina used at Hawesville may be higher than under our LME-based alumina contracts. We acquire alumina used at our Ravenswood and Mt. Holly facilities at prices based on the LME price for primary aluminum. The Gramercy refinery that Century and Falconbridge acquired from Kaiser supplies all of the alumina used at Hawesville at prices based on the Gramercy refinery’s production costs. Those production costs could be materially higher than the price paid under LME-based contracts during periods when aluminum prices are low and raw material costs used in the production of alumina, such as natural gas, are high. Changes in the relative cost of certain raw materials and energy compared to the price of primary aluminum could affect our operating results. Our operating results are sensitive to changes in the price of primary aluminum and the raw materials used in its production, including caustic soda and calcined petroleum coke. Although we attempt to mitigate the effects of such price fluctuations through the use of various fixed-price commitments and financial instruments, these efforts may limit our ability to take advantage of favorable changes in the market prices for primary aluminum or raw materials. In addition, because we have sold forward a certain amount of our production capacity in future years, rising raw material and energy prices would negatively impact our earnings and cash flow, all other things being equal. See “Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Electricity represents our single largest operating cost. As a result, the availability of electricity at economic prices is critical to the profitability of our operations. While we purchase primarily all of our electricity for our existing U.S. facilities under fixed-price contracts through 2006, a portion of the contracted cost of the electricity supplied to Mt. Holly varies with the supplier’s fuel costs. An increase in these fuel costs would increase the price Mt. Holly pays for electricity. Power costs at Mt. Holly were $12.4 million higher in 2005 than 2004, primarily due to fuel cost adjustments. Also, the fixed price in the contract for Ravenswood may be increased as a result of an ongoing rate case. The fixed price portions of our current power contracts at Hawesville are due to expire at various times from the end of 2006 through 2010. If we are unable to obtain power at economic rates upon the expiration of these contracts or in connection with the rate case, we may be forced to curtail or idle a portion of our production capacity, which would lower our revenues and adversely affect the profitability of our operations. We are subject to the risk of union disputes. The bargaining unit employees at our Ravenswood and Hawesville facilities and at the Gramercy refinery are represented by the United Steel Workers of America. Century’s labor contracts at Hawesville and Ravenswood expire in March and May 2006, respectively. We may be unable to satisfactorily renegotiate those labor contracts. In addition, our recently negotiated contract with Nordural’s employees that expires in 2009 and our contract with employees at the Gramercy plant that expires in 2010 may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of these facilities in the future, and any such work stoppage could prevent or significantly impair our ability to conduct production operations at those facilities which could materially adversely affect our financial results. 15 We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that could result in costs or liabilities. We are obligated to comply with various federal, state and other environmental laws and regulations, including the environmental laws and regulations of Iceland, the European Economic Area and Jamaica. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to costs or liabilities relating to our manufacturing operations or property ownership. We incur operating costs and capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we are currently and may in the future be responsible for the cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities or for the amelioration of damage to natural resources. For example, we, along with others, including former owners of our former St. Croix facility, has been sued for alleged natural resources damages at the facility. While it is not presently possible to determine the outcome of this matter, our known liabilities with respect to this and other matters relating to compliance and cleanup, based on current information, are not expected to be material and should not materially adversely affect our operating results. However, if more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, previously unknown environmental conditions or damages to natural resources are discovered, or if contributions from other responsible parties with respect to sites for which we have cleanup responsibilities are not available, we may be subject to additional liability, which may be material and could affect our liquidity. Further, additional environmental matters for which we may be liable may arise in the future at our present sites where no problem is currently known, with respect to sites previously owned or operated by us, by related corporate entities or by our predecessors, or at sites that we may acquire in the future. Overall production costs may become prohibitively expensive and prevent us from effectively competing in price sensitive markets if future capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance or cleanup are significantly greater than current or projected expenditures and costs. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Environmental Expenditures and Other Contingencies” and Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for a detailed description of our environmental matters and associated costs and risks. Acquisitions may present difficulties. We have a history of making strategic acquisitions. We expect to make strategic acquisitions in the future. We are subject to numerous risks as a result of our acquisitions, including the following: • it may be challenging for us to manage our existing business as we integrate acquired operations; • we may not achieve the anticipated reductions in average unit production costs as a result of our acquisitions; and • management of acquisitions will require continued development of financial controls and information systems, which may prove to be expensive, time-consuming, and difficult to maintain. Accordingly, our recent or future acquisitions might not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated. We may not realize the expected benefits of the planned expansion of Nordural. The ongoing expansion of Nordural, which is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2006, will more than double the facility’s existing production capacity. The expected benefits of the expansion may not be realized if Nordural is unable to complete the expansion in the time forecast or experiences significant cost overruns. We may add additional capacity to the current expansion project or in a future expansion of Nordural. In each case, our ability to add the additional capacity depends on our ability to enter into certain key contracts for that capacity. Operating in foreign countries exposes us to political, regulatory, currency and other related risks. Nordural is our first facility located outside of the United States and following completion of the ongoing expansion, it will represent 29.5% of our overall primary aluminum production capacity. The bauxite operations related to the Gramercy plant, which we acquired through a joint venture with Falconbridge, are 16 located in Jamaica. We may in the future consider other investments in foreign countries. International operations may expose us to risks, including unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations, political and economic instability, challenges in managing foreign operations, increased cost to adapt our systems and practices to those used in foreign countries, export duties, tariffs and other trade barriers, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. In addition, we may be exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and, as a result, an increase in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could increase our operating expenses which are denominated and payable in those currencies. For example, Nordural’s revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, while its labor costs are denominated in Icelandic krona and a portion of its anode costs are denominated in euros. Our historical financial information may not be comparable to our results for future periods. Our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For example, our historical financial data does not reflect the effects of: • our acquisition of the remaining 20% interest in Hawesville prior to April 1, 2003; • our acquisition of Nordural prior to April 27, 2004; and • the equity earnings of the joint venture purchases of the Gramercy assets prior to October 1, 2004. Our high level of indebtedness requires significant cash flow to meet our debt service requirements, which reduces cash available for other purposes, such as the payment of dividends, and limits our ability to pursue our growth strategy. We are highly leveraged. We have an aggregate of approximately $671.9 million of outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2005. In addition, we could borrow additional amounts under our $100 million credit facility and Nordural has access to an additional $143.0 million under its $365.0 million term loan facility. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting cash flow available for capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, working capital and other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competitive and other changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt and greater operating and financing flexibility than we do; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, which may prevent us from pursuing favorable acquisition opportunities when they arise. In addition to our indebtedness, we have liabilities and other obligations which could reduce cash available for other purposes and limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy. We will need a significant amount of cash to service our debt. In addition, we will be required to settle in cash up to the principal amount of our convertible notes (which are convertible by the holder at any time) upon conversion, which could increase our debt service obligations. More information about our liquidity and debt service obligations is available at “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. We are also exposed to risks of interest rate increases. Nordural entered into a $365.0 million senior term loan facility and had outstanding borrowings of $230.4 million at December 31, 2005. Nordural’s annual debt service requirements will vary, as amounts outstanding under its new term loan facility will bear interest at a variable rate. 17 Our ability to pay interest and to repay or refinance our indebtedness, including Nordural’s senior term loan facility, and our senior notes and convertible notes, and to satisfy other commitments, including funding the Nordural expansion, will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors that are beyond our control. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could attempt to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Restrictive covenants in our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes limit our ability to incur additional debt and pursue our growth strategy. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior term notes each contain various covenants that restrict the way we conduct our business and limits our ability to incur debt, pay dividends and engage in transactions such as acquisitions and investments, which may impair our ability to pursue our growth strategy. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt Service.” Any failure to comply with those covenants may constitute a breach under the revolving credit facility or the indenture governing the notes, which may result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness and termination of commitments under our revolving credit facility. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may be unable to repay those amounts upon acceleration and our secured lenders could foreclose on any collateral securing our secured debt. Substantially all of Nordural’s assets are pledged as security under its term loan facility, including, but not limited to, all of Nordural’s property, plant and equipment related to the smelter and the harbor area and all of Nordural’s current and future inventory, receivables, insurance policies, bank accounts, and rights under specified contracts relating to the operation of Nordural, including its tolling, anode supply and power contracts having a term longer than two years. In addition, the shares of Nordural have been pledged to the lenders as collateral. If Nordural is unable to comply with these covenants, the lenders would be able to cancel commitments under Nordural’s loan facility, cause all or part of the amounts outstanding under the loan facility to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral securing the loan facility. The term loan facility also contains restrictions on Nordural’s ability to pay dividends, including a requirement that Nordural make a repayment of principal in an amount equal to 50% of any dividend paid to shareholders. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Based on Nordural’s needs for cash to finance its expansion and operations, we do not currently anticipate that Nordural will distribute any cash in the foreseeable future. We depend upon dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries. Nordural’s senior term loan facility places significant limits on Nordural’s ability to pay dividends. Subject to the restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior and convertible notes, future borrowings by our subsidiaries could contain restrictions or prohibitions on the payment of dividends by those subsidiaries. In addition, under applicable law, our subsidiaries could be limited in the amounts that they are permitted to pay as dividends on their capital stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility from time to time, and this volatility may continue in the future. From January 1, 2005, through February 28, 2006, the intra-day sales price of our common stock on NASDAQ ranged from $17.82 to $39.07 per share. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations, expectations about the future price of aluminum, changes in earnings estimates or recommenda- 18 tions by securities analysts, changes in research coverage by securities analysts, the conversion of some or all of our outstanding convertible notes, any announcement by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, developments in the aluminum industry and sales of substantial numbers of shares by current holders of our common stock in the public market. In addition, general economic, political and market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance may cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile. Provisions in our charter documents and state law may make it difficult for others to obtain control of Century Aluminum, even though some stockholders may consider it to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of Century, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise have received a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, these provisions: • give authority to our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any stockholder vote; • provide, under our charter documents, for a board of directors consisting of three classes, each of which serves for a different three-year term; • require stockholders to give advance notice prior to submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders’ meetings or to nominate persons for election as directors; and • restrict, under our charter documents, certain business combinations between us and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, several of our officers have entered into employment and severance compensation agreements that provide for cash payments, immediate vesting of stock options and performance shares and acceleration of other benefits under certain circumstances, including a change in control of Century. Our 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, also provides for acceleration of the ability to exercise stock options and the vesting of performance shares upon a change of control, and our Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan provides for acceleration of an option holder’s ability to exercise stock options upon a change of control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 