Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully read and consider the following risk factors. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and we may not achieve profitability in any given period. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations which make estimating revenue and operating results for any specific period very difficult, particularly as a material portion of product revenue recognized in any given quarter and year typically depends on a very limited number of system sales expected for that quarter and year and the product revenue may depend on the timing of product acceptances by customers and contractual provisions affecting revenue recognition. Delays in recognizing revenue from a product transaction or transactions due to development or product delivery delays, not receiving needed components timely or with anticipated quality and performance, not achieving customer acceptances of installed systems, contractual provisions or for other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in any specific quarter, and could shift associated revenue, gross profit and cash receipts from one quarter into another, including from one year to another in the case of revenue expected to be realized in the fourth quarter of any year. In addition, because our revenue is often 14 Table of Contents concentrated in particular quarters rather than evenly spread throughout a year, we may not be able to sustain profitability over successive quarters even if we are profitable for the year. We have experienced net losses in recent periods and last recorded positive annual net income in 2003. For example, we recorded a net loss of $10.6 million in 2007, a net loss of $40.7 million in 2008, including a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $54.5 million, and a net loss of $0.6 million in 2009. Whether we will be able to increase our revenue and achieve and sustain profitability on a quarterly and annual basis depends on a number of factors, including: • the level of revenue recognized in any given period, which is affected by the very high average sales prices and limited number of system sales in any quarter, the timing of product acceptances by customers and contractual provisions affecting the timing and amount of revenue recognition; • completing development of our “Baker” system, including its new interconnect chipset, known as “Gemini,” and associated system software, targeted for completion in the third quarter of 2010, manufacturing such systems in sufficient quantities and in a timely fashion and achieving acceptances of Baker system deliveries in 2010; • completing development of our Cray XT6 system, targeted for completion in the first half of 2010, and achieving acceptances of Cray XT6 system deliveries in 2010; • successfully selling and delivering our Cray XT5, Cray XT6, Cray XT5m and Cray XT6m systems and upgrade and successor systems; • the successful expansion of our Custom Engineering strategic initiative; • our expense levels, including research and development expense net of government funding, which are affected by the amount and timing of such funding and the meeting of contractual development milestones, including the milestones under our DARPA HPCS program; • our ability to successfully and timely design, integrate and secure competitive processors into and for our systems, including for successors to our Cray XT5 and Cray XT6 systems; • the competitiveness of our products; • maintaining our product development projects on schedule and within budgetary limitations; • the level of product gross profit contribution in any given period due to product mix, strategic transactions, product life cycle, currency fluctuations and component costs; • the level and timing of maintenance contract renewals with existing customers; • the level and timing of our engineering services contract closures, including the amount of non-billable time incurred; • revenue delays or losses due to customers postponing purchases to wait for future upgraded or new systems, delays in delivery of upgraded or new systems and longer than expected customer acceptance cycles; • the building of a reseller network for our Cray CX products and achieving significant sales of Cray CX systems; and • the terms and conditions of sale or lease for our products and services. The receipt of orders and the timing of shipments and acceptances impact our quarterly and annual results and are affected by events outside our control, such as: • the timely availability of acceptable components in sufficient quantities to meet customer delivery schedules; • the timing and level of government funding for research and development contracts and product acquisitions, which may be adversely affected by the current economic and fiscal situation and governmental budgetary limitations; 15 Table of Contents • price fluctuations in the commodity electronics, processor and memory markets; • general economic trends, including changes in levels of customer capital spending; • the introduction or announcement of competitive products; • currency fluctuations, international conflicts or economic crises; • the availability of adequate customer facilities to install and operate new Cray systems; and • the receipt and timing of necessary export licenses. Because of the numerous factors affecting our revenue and results of operations, we may not have net income on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. We anticipate that our quarterly results will fluctuate significantly, and include losses. Delays in component availability, product development, receipt of orders, product acceptances, reductions in outside funding for our research and development efforts and achieving contractual development milestones have had a substantial adverse effect on our past results and could continue to have such an effect on our results in 2010 and in future years. If the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (“DARPA”) terminates our DARPA High Productivity Computing Systems (“HPCS”) program in whole or in part or if we are unable to achieve and obtain acceptance of key DARPA milestones when or as expected or at all, our desired strategy would be adversely affected, our net research and development expenditures and capital requirements would increase significantly and our ability to conduct research and development would decrease. The DARPA HPCS program calls for the delivery of prototype systems in 2012, and currently provides for a contribution by DARPA to us of up to $190 million assuming we meet certain milestones, $110 million of which we have already received. In February of 2010, we completed negotiations with DARPA to change the scope and schedule of this program, including changes to milestones and payments allocated to individual milestones, and that resulted in a reduction in the total possible contribution from DARPA over the term of the HPCS program from $250 million to $190 million. We have two additional milestones that could be completed in 2010. If the completion of any development milestone is delayed, our reported net research and development expenses, and our operating results, would be adversely affected. If we are unable to complete the remaining milestones, or one or more milestone payments are delayed, reduced and/or eliminated or the program is terminated, our cash flows and expenses would be adversely impacted and our product development programs would be put at risk. If we do not achieve and have accepted a milestone in the period we had originally estimated, we may incur research and development expense without offsetting co-funding, resulting in increased net research and development expense during the period. We incurred some delays in payments for program milestones by DARPA in 2007 and 2008; in addition, as a result of our recent discussions with DARPA on the changes in scope and program schedule, third and fourth quarters of 2009 and full-year results were adversely impacted by delays in completing development milestones. The amount of DARPA funds we can recognize as an offset to our periodic research and development expenses depends on our estimates of the total costs and the time to complete the program; changes in our estimates may decrease the amount of funding recognized in any period, which may increase the amount of net research and development expense recognized in that quarter. By the project’s completion, we must spend at least $285 million on the project for us to receive all of the DARPA $190 million reimbursements; failure to do so would result in a lower level of DARPA contribution and could result in a termination of the funding contract. DARPA’s future financial commitments are subject to subsequent Congressional and federal inter-agency action, and our development efforts and the level of reported research and development expenses would be adversely impacted if DARPA does not receive expected funding, which could result in a delay in payment for completed milestones, a delay in the timing of milestones or a decision to terminate all or part of the program before completion. If our strategic initiatives targeting markets outside of the high end of the high performance computer (“HPC”) market are not successful, our ability to grow our revenues and achieve and sustain profitability will be adversely affected. There may not be significant growth in the high end of the HPC market. Therefore, our ability to materially grow our revenues and achieve and sustain profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from strategic initiatives targeting markets outside of the high end of the HPC market. We currently have three such new strategic initiatives: Custom Engineering, selling our Cray CX and successor systems and selling our Cray XT5m and successor systems. To grow our revenue from Custom 16 Table of Contents Engineering, we must continue to win awards for new contracts, timely perform on existing contracts and develop our capability for business development, notwithstanding that this is a relatively new initiative and we do not have significant experience targeting the markets relevant to our Custom Engineering practices. In addition, many of the new Custom Engineering projects will be for the U.S. government and likely will require us to enter into agreements that are subject to new or additional Federal Acquisition Regulations, including costing and pricing requirements to which we have not previously been subject. These regulations are complex and subject to audit to ensure compliance. We may need to enhance existing financial and costing systems to accommodate these new requirements. Errors made in interpreting and complying with these regulations could result in significant penalties. Although we have not introduced a product relying primarily on indirect sales in the past, sales of Cray CX systems will depend upon building a new global network of independent resellers in Europe, North America and Asia-Pacific and having those resellers successfully sell these new Cray CX systems in the competitive workgroup server market. The Cray XT5m and Cray XT6m systems requires successful sales in the lower end of the supercomputer market segment. These efforts require monetary investments ahead of revenue, including adding experienced personnel and initiating new marketing efforts. If we are unable to successfully sell and deliver our Cray XT5 and Cray XT6 systems and develop, sell and deliver successor systems, such as our “Baker” system, our operating results will be adversely affected. We expect that a significant portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future will come from sales and deliveries of Cray XT5 and Cray XT6 and successor systems, such as our “Baker” system, and upgrades. Because of the long technology development cycles required to compete effectively in this market, we must begin development of products years ahead of our ability to sell such systems. With procurements for large systems that require that we link together multiple cabinets containing powerful processors and other components into an integrated system, our Cray XT5 and Cray XT6 and successor systems must also scale to unprecedented levels of performance. During our internal testing and the customer acceptance processes, we may discover that we cannot achieve acceptable system stability across these large systems without incurring significant additional delays and expense. Any additional delays in receiving acceptable components or in product development, assembly, final testing and obtaining large system stability would delay delivery, installation and acceptance of Cray XT5 and Cray XT6 and successor systems. Many factors affect our ability to successfully develop and sell these systems, including the following: • The level of product differentiation in our Cray XT5 and Cray XT6 and successor systems. We need to compete successfully against HPC systems from large established companies and lower bandwidth, commodity “cluster” systems from both large established companies and smaller firms and demonstrate the value of our balanced high bandwidth systems. • Our ability to meet all customer requirements for acceptance. Even once a system has been delivered, we sometimes do not meet all of the contract requirements for customer acceptance and ongoing reliability of our systems, which has resulted in contract penalties. Most often these penalties adversely affect the gross profit through the provision of additional equipment and services and/or service credits to satisfy delivery delays and performance shortfalls. Such penalties adversely impacted gross profits in 2008 and 2007, and we incurred additional penalties in 2009. The risk of contract penalties is increased when we bid for new business prior to completing development of new products when we must estimate future system performance, such as successors to the Cray XT5 system. • Our ability to source competitive, key components in appropriate quantities, in a timely fashion and on acceptable terms and conditions. For example, in March 2008, we placed a last-time buy for a key component for our Cray XT4, Cray XT5, Cray XT6 and Cray XMT systems prior to it becoming unavailable, which had to be placed before we could know all the possible sales prospects for these products or when the key component could be made obsolete by a successor component. If we underestimated our needs, we could limit the number of possible sales of these products and reduce potential revenue, or if we overestimated, we could incur inventory obsolescence charges and reduce our gross profit. In the third quarter of 2009, we wrote off approximately $4.5 million of estimated excess inventory primarily related to this key component, and we may be required to write off some of the $3.9 million remaining inventory in the future. 17 Table of Contents Failure to successfully sell our Cray XT5 and Cray XT6 systems and develop and sell successor systems into the high end of the HPC market will adversely affect our operating results. In fact, a significant portion of our 2010 product revenue is expected to be derived from our Cray XT6 and “Baker” systems that are still in development. If we are unable to complete these development efforts when and as anticipated during 2010, our 2010 results will be adversely affected. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware and software have resulted in pricing pressure and may adversely affect our operating results. The continuing commoditization of HPC hardware, particularly processors and interconnect systems, and the growing commoditization of software, including plentiful building blocks and more capable open source software, have resulted in the expansion and acceptance of lower-bandwidth cluster systems using processors manufactured by Intel, AMD and others combined with commercially available commodity networking and other components, particularly in the middle and lower portions of the HPC market. These systems may offer higher theoretical peak performance for equivalent cost, and “price/peak performance” is often the dominant factor in HPC procurements outside of the high-end HPC or supercomputer market segment. Vendors of such systems often put pricing pressure on us in competitive procurements, even at times in larger procurements, and this pricing pressure may cause us to reduce our pricing in order to remain competitive which can negatively impact our gross margins and adversely affect our operating results. Failure to overcome the technical challenges of developing competitive supercomputer systems years before they can be sold would adversely affect our revenue and operating results in subsequent years. In addition to completing the development of the scalable system software and hardware for upgrades to the Cray XT5 systems, we continue to develop successor systems to the Cray XT5 system, incorporate Intel technologies into our products and complete our DARPA HPCS program. We are also exploring the incorporation of potentially key technological alternatives into our products, such as graphic processing units. These development efforts are lengthy and technically challenging processes, and require a significant investment of capital, engineering and other resources well ahead of the time when we can be assured they will result in competitive products. We may invest significant resources in alternatives that prove ultimately unfruitful. Unanticipated performance and/or development issues may require more engineers, time or testing resources than are currently available. In the past several years, directing engineering resources to solving current issues has adversely affected the timely development of successor products required for our longer-term product roadmap. Given the breadth of our engineering challenges and our limited engineering and technical personnel resources, we periodically review the anticipated contributions and expense of our product programs to determine their long-term viability, and we may substantially modify or terminate one or more development programs. We may not be successful in meeting our development schedules for technical reasons and/or because of insufficient engineering resources, which could cause a lack of confidence in our capabilities among our key customers. To the extent we incur delays in completing the design, development and production of hardware components, delays in development of requisite system software, cancellation of programs due to technical or economic infeasibility or invest in unproductive development efforts, our revenue, results of operations and cash flows, and the reputation of such systems in the market, could be adversely affected. Our reliance on third-party suppliers poses significant risks to our operating results, business and prospects. We use service providers to co-develop key technologies, including integrated circuit design and verification. We subcontract the manufacture of a majority of the hardware components for our high-end products, including integrated circuits, printed circuit boards, connectors, cables, power supplies and memory parts, on a sole or limited source basis to third-party suppliers. We use contract manufacturers to assemble certain important components for all of our systems. We also rely on third parties to supply key software and hardware capabilities, such as file systems and storage subsystems. In addition, we use an original equipment manufacturer to deliver complete Cray CX systems. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on these and other limited or sole source suppliers, including the following risks: • If a supplier does not provide components that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities on time, then production and sales of our systems could be delayed. • If an interruption of supply of our components, services or capabilities occurs because a supplier changes its technology roadmap, decides to no longer provide those products or services, increases the price of those products or services significantly or imposes allocations on its customers, it could take us a considerable 18 Table of Contents period of time to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, to redesign our products as necessary and to begin to manufacture the redesigned components or otherwise obtain those services or capabilities. In some cases, such as with key integrated circuits and memory parts, we may not be able to redesign such components or find alternate sources that we could use in any realistic timeframe. • If a supplier providing us with key research and development and design services or core technology components with respect to integrated circuit design, network communication capabilities or software is late, fails to provide us with effective functionality or loses key internal talent, our development programs may be delayed or prove to be impossible to complete. • If a supplier cannot provide a competitive key component or eliminates key features from components, such as processors, our systems may be less competitive than systems using components with greater capabilities. • If a supplier provides us with hardware or software that contains bugs or other errors or is different from what we expected, our development projects and production systems may be adversely affected through additional design testing and verification efforts, respins of integrated circuits and/or development of replacement components, the production and sales of our systems could be delayed and systems installed at customer sites could require significant, expensive field component replacements; • Some of our key component and service suppliers are small companies with limited financial and other resources, and consequently may be more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies, which increases the risk that they will be unable to deliver products as needed. • If a key supplier is acquired or has a significant business change, such as the acquisition of our file system software provider by our competitor Sun Microsystems and the subsequent acquisition of Sun by Oracle, the production and sales of our systems and services may be delayed or adversely affected, or our development programs may be delayed or may be impossible to complete. For example, our DARPA HPCS project was adversely affected by recent changes by Intel in its high performance technology roadmap that affected our ability to complete that program successfully and resulted in a reduction in the amount of funding we could receive from DARPA by $60 million. In addition, our Cray XT5, Cray XT6 and successor systems are based on certain AMD Opteron processors. Delays in the availability of certain acceptable reliable components, including processors and memory parts, adversely affected our revenue and operating results in prior periods, and could continue to adversely affect results for 2010 and in subsequent periods. The failure by the original equipment manufacturer of our Cray CX1 systems to timely obtain necessary certifications also adversely affected our ability to introduce and ramp up sales of this product in 2009. If the U.S. government purchases fewer supercomputers, our revenue would be reduced and our operating results would be adversely affected. Historically, sales to the U.S. government and customers primarily serving the U.S. government have represented the largest single market segment for supercomputer sales worldwide, including our products and services. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, approximately 60%, 81%, and 72%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from such sales. Our plans for 2010 and the foreseeable future contemplate significant sales to U.S. government agencies. Sales to government agencies, including further sales pursuant to existing contracts, may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as changes in procurement policies, budgetary considerations including Congressional delays in completing appropriation bills, the current economic uncertainty and its effect on government budgets, domestic crises, and international political developments. If agencies and departments of the United States or other governments were to stop, reduce or delay their use and purchases of supercomputers, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive HPC market, our business will not be successful. The market for HPC systems is very competitive. An increase in competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in pricing reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share and revenue. Many of our competitors are established companies well known in the HPC market, including IBM, NEC, Hewlett-Packard, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Silicon Graphics International, Bull S.A. and Sun Microsystems. Most of these competitors have substantially greater research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we do. We also compete with systems builders and resellers of systems that are constructed from 19 Table of Contents commodity components using processors manufactured by Intel, AMD and others. These competitors include the previously named companies and Dell, with IBM using both third-party processors and its own proprietary processors, as well as smaller firms that benefit from the low research and development costs needed to assemble systems from commercially available commodity products. Such companies, because they can offer high peak performance per dollar, can put pricing pressure on us in certain competitive procurements. In addition, to the extent that Intel, IBM and other processor suppliers develop processors with greater capabilities than the processors we currently use from AMD or design in over time, our Cray XT5, Cray XT5m, Cray XT6, Cray XT6m and successor systems may be at a competitive disadvantage to systems utilizing such other processors until we can design in, integrate and secure competitive processors, if at all. Although our April 2008 collaboration with Intel is intended to help mitigate this risk, Intel processors are not expected to be delivered in our Cray XT line of supercomputers until 2012 or 2013. Periodic announcements by our competitors of new HPC systems or plans for future systems and price adjustments may reduce customer demand for our products. Many of our potential customers already own or lease very high performance computer systems. Some of our competitors may offer substantial discounts to potential customers. We have in the past and may again be required to provide substantial discounts to make strategic sales, which may reduce or eliminate any gross profit on such transactions, or to provide lease financing for our products, which could result in a deferral of our receipt of cash and revenue for these systems. These developments limit our revenue and resources and reduce our ability to be profitable. We may fail in our efforts to keep up with rapid technological changes in the HPC industry. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerated product obsolescence and continuously evolving industry standards. Our success depends upon our ability to sell our current products, and to develop successor systems and enhancements in a timely manner to meet evolving customer requirements, which may be influenced by competitive offerings. We may not succeed in these efforts. Even if we succeed, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. The development process is lengthy and costly and requires us to commit a significant amount of resources well in advance of sales. A breakthrough in technology could make lower bandwidth cluster systems even more attractive to our existing and potential customers. Such a breakthrough would impair our ability to sell our products and would reduce our revenue and operating results. We are subject to increasing government regulations and other requirements due to the nature of our business, which may adversely affect our business operations. In 2008 and 2009, 81% and 72%, respectively, of our revenue were derived from the U.S. government or customers primarily serving the U.S. government. Our growth in Custom Engineering is also primarily directed at the government market. In addition to normal business risks, our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, other government regulations affect our business operations. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate may extend for several years; however, these programs are normally funded annually. Changes in U.S. strategy and priorities may affect our future procurement opportunities and existing programs. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation, or delay, if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. The termination of funding for existing or new U.S. government programs could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts with us. The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts with us, without prior notice at its convenience upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our U.S. government contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. government agencies. U.S. government representatives may audit the costs we incur on our U.S. government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If any audit uncovers 20 Table of Contents improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. Our business is subject to potential U.S. government inquiries and investigations. We may be subject to U.S. government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our U.S. government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to secure future U.S. government contracts. U.S. export controls could hinder our ability to make sales to foreign customers and our future prospects. The U.S. government regulates the export of HPC systems such as our products. Occasionally we have experienced delays for up to several months in receiving appropriate approvals necessary for certain sales, which have delayed the shipment of our products. Delay or denial in the granting of any required licenses could make it more difficult to make sales to foreign customers, eliminating an important source of potential revenue. Our ability to have certain components manufactured in foreign countries for a lower cost has also been adversely affected by export restrictions covering information necessary to allow such foreign manufacturers to manufacture components for us. If we cannot retain, attract and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to effectively implement our business plan. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled management, development, marketing, sales and service personnel. The loss of and failure to replace key engineering management and personnel could adversely affect multiple development efforts. Recruitment and retention of senior management and skilled technical, sales and other personnel is very competitive, and we may not be successful in either attracting or retaining such personnel. From time to time, we have lost key personnel to other high technology companies. As part of our strategy to attract and retain key personnel, we may offer equity compensation through stock options and restricted stock grants. Potential employees, however, may not perceive our equity incentives as attractive, and current employees who have significant options with exercise prices significantly above current market values for our common stock may seek other employment. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses. Our stock price is volatile. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including our quarterly operating results, changes in analysts’ estimates or our outlook, our capital raising activities, announcements of technological innovations and customer contracts by us or our competitors, general economic conditions and conditions in our industry. We may infringe or be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties in the past have asserted, and may in the future assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and such future claims, if proved, could require us to pay substantial damages, redesign our existing products or pay fees to obtain cross-license agreements. Regardless of the merits, any claim of infringement would require management attention and could be expensive to defend. We incorporate software licensed from third parties into the operating systems for our products and any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products or defects in these products could reduce the demand for our products. The operating system software we develop for our HPC systems contains components that are licensed to us under open source software licenses. Our business could be disrupted if this software, or functional equivalents of this software, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case we would be required to redesign our operating system software to function with alternative third-party software, or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in product shipments. Our Cray CX, Cray XT and successor systems 21 Table of Contents utilize software system variants that incorporate Linux technology. The open source licenses under which we have obtained certain components of our operating system software may not be enforceable. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that Linux-based operating systems, or significant portions of them, may not be copied, modified or distributed as provided in those licenses, would adversely affect our ability to sell our systems. In addition, as a result of concerns about the risks of litigation and open source software generally, we may be forced to protect our customers from potential claims of infringement. In any such event, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We also incorporate proprietary incidental software from third parties, such as for file systems, job scheduling and storage subsystems. We have experienced some functional issues in the past with implementing such software with our supercomputer systems. In addition, we may not be able to secure needed software systems on acceptable terms, which may make our systems less attractive to potential customers. These issues may result in lost revenue, additional expense by us and/or loss of customer confidence. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 at the end of each fiscal year, and any adverse results from such future evaluations could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-K as to whether we have any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Depending on their nature and severity, any future material weaknesses could result in our having to restate financial statements, could make it difficult or impossible for us to obtain an audit of our annual financial statements or could result in a qualification of any such audit. In such events, we could experience a number of adverse consequences, including our inability to comply with applicable reporting and listing requirements, a loss of market confidence in our publicly available information, delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market, an inability to complete a financing, loss of other financing sources such as our line of credit, and litigation based on the events themselves or their consequences. We may not be able to protect our proprietary information and rights adequately. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret protection, nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish, protect and enforce our proprietary information and rights. We have a number of patents and have additional applications pending. There can be no assurance, however, that patents will be issued from the pending applications or that any issued patents will protect adequately those aspects of our technology to which such patents will relate. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that we will succeed in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Additionally, under certain conditions, the U.S. government might obtain non-exclusive rights to certain of our intellectual property. Although we continue to implement protective measures and intend to defend our proprietary rights vigorously, these efforts may not be successful. A significant number of our shares are eligible for future sale and may depress the market price of our common stock and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding: • 35,181,407 shares of common stock; and • 3,116,522 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options, of which options to purchase 1,241,969 shares of common stock were then exercisable. Almost all of our outstanding shares of common stock may be sold without substantial restrictions, with certain exceptions including, as of December 31, 2009, an aggregate of 1,431,885 restricted shares and restricted stock units held by our Board of Directors, executive officers and other employees that may be forfeited and are restricted against transfer until vested. 22 Table of Contents Almost all of the shares of common stock that may be issued on exercise of the options will be available for sale in the public market when issued, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our common stock, including sales of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options may depress prevailing market prices for the common stock. Even the perception that sales could occur may impact market prices adversely. The existence of outstanding options may prove to be a hindrance to our future financings. Further, the holders of options may exercise them for shares of common stock at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. We also have authorized 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, although no shares of preferred stock currently are outstanding. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make a proposed acquisition of Cray that is not approved by our Board of Directors more difficult. Provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. For example, our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for: • removal of a director only in limited circumstances and only upon the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote to elect directors; • the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • no cumulative voting of shares; • the right of shareholders to call a special meeting of the shareholders only upon demand by the holders of not less than 30% of the shares entitled to vote at such a meeting; • the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on an amendment, unless the amendment was approved by a majority of our continuing directors, who are defined as directors who have either served as a director since August 31, 1995, or were nominated to be a director by the continuing directors; • special voting requirements for mergers and other business combinations, unless the proposed transaction was approved by a majority of continuing directors; • special procedures to bring matters before our shareholders at our annual shareholders’ meeting; and • special procedures to nominate members for election to our board of directors. These provisions could delay, defer or prevent a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business transaction between us and a third party that is not approved by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 