Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Relating to the Company and its Business In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the following factors could cause actual results to differ from expectations or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition: Our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients and the loss of one or more of them, or a reduction in their demand for our services, could materially affect our financial results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a small number of clients. Most of our revenue is concentrated in the healthcare, business services, communications, and publishing industries. There can be no assurance that we will not become more dependent on a few significant clients, that we will be able to retain any of our larger clients or maintain our current volume or margins with these clients. Should we lose a client or experience a reduction in demand for our services from, or decline in the profitability of, a large client, we may not be able to replace such clients or programs with clients or programs that generate a comparable amount of revenue or profits or terminate such client relationships. Our five largest clients accounted for approximately 78% of our fiscal year 2008 revenue and our ten largest clients accounted for approximately 90% of our fiscal year 2008 revenue. The loss of one or more of our significant clients, a significant downturn in any of our core industries, a trend in any of these industries to reduce their outsourced customer care services, a change in the customer relationship strategy of any of these clients or industries or a change in the volume or profitability of one or more of these client relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our business may be affected by the performance of our clients and general economic conditions. In substantially all of our client programs, we generate revenue based, in large part, on the amount of time our employees devote to our clients’ customers. Consequently, the amount of revenue generated from any particular client program is dependent upon consumers’ interest in and use of our client’s products and/or services, which may be adversely affected by general economic conditions. Our clients may not be able to market or develop products and services that require their customers to use our services, especially as a result of the recent downturn in the U.S. and worldwide economy. Furthermore, a decline in our client’s business or performance, including possible client bankruptcies, could impair their ability to pay for our services. We currently provide customer care services for several publishing clients and while this accounts for less than 10% of our annual revenue, the publishing business continues to experience a significant downturn in their industry. Although we currently do not anticipate payment issues with our major clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected if any such clients were unable or unwilling, for any reason, to pay for our services. Our financial results depend on our ability to effectively manage our production capacity and our workforce. Our profitability is influenced significantly by our ability to effectively manage our production capacity and our workforce. To maximize profitability we need to continually increase our revenue per production seat and our capacity utilization, and maximize our workforce productivity. Capacity utilization and workforce productivity may be affected at various times for numerous reasons including call volume, call arrival patterns, our ability to accurately forecast and staff to anticipated volume and call arrival patterns, employee attrition and seasonality. We currently have significantly higher capacity utilization during daytime weekday hours. We periodically assess the long-term capacity of our customer care centers, both domestically and off-shore, including the ability to accommodate new and expanded programs and clients, and make strategic decisions regarding the opening or expansion of customer care centers. We use a workforce administration platform which allows us to more effectively manage our employees’ time, quickly respond to changing client needs and maximize our workforce productivity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve optimum capacity utilization, maximize the productivity of our workforce or keep pace with the anticipated growth in demand for our services. If we maintain idle production seats or fail to effectively manage our workforce productivity, our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Operations and Capacity Utilization.” 13 Table of Contents Our success is subject to the terms of our client contracts. Most of our client contracts do not have minimum volume requirements and the profitability of each client program may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout various stages of a program. Certain contracts have performance-related bonus and/or penalty provisions, whereby the client may pay us a bonus or we may have to issue a credit based upon our meeting, or failing to meet, agreed-upon service levels and performance metrics. Our objective is to sign multi-year contracts with our clients. However, our contracts generally enable the clients to terminate the contract for convenience or reduce customer interaction volumes. There can be no assurance that our clients will not terminate their contracts before their scheduled expiration date, that the volume of services for these programs will not be reduced or that we will be able to avoid penalties or earn performance bonuses. In addition, there can be no assurance that each client program will be profitable for us or that we will be able to terminate unprofitable client relationships without incurring significant liabilities. The loss of one or more of our significant clients, the substantial reduction of the amount of services we perform for a significant client, the payment of penalties for failure to meet performance metrics, an unprofitable client or client program or our inability to terminate an unprofitable client contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Client Relationships.” Our success depends on our ability to sustain profitability. We have experienced operating losses during four of the last five fiscal years and while we reported income before taxes of $3.1 million for fiscal year 2008, we have not been able to deliver consistently improving financial results prior to this year. Failure to realize continued improvements in key operating and financial metrics driven by reducing costs and achieving efficiencies could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our business may be affected by our cash flows from operations and our ability to comply with our debt covenants and funding requirements under our credit facility. Our cash flow is significantly impacted by our overall profitability and our ability to collect our clients’ accounts receivable on a timely basis. To the extent that our business with a single client or small group of clients represents a more significant portion of our revenue, a delay in receiving payment could materially adversely affect the availability of cash to fund operations, thereby increasing our reliance on borrowings under our current loan agreements. Our current loan agreement provides us with a $40.0 million revolving loan facility which expires in May 2011 (Revolving Loan Agreement). At the end of fiscal 2008, we had drawn $6.1 million against this revolving loan facility. Our ability to borrow under the Revolving Loan Agreement depends on the amount of eligible accounts receivable from our clients and there are limitations on the concentration of these accounts with a single client. In addition, our lenders retain certain reserves against otherwise available borrowing capacity. Of our undrawn capacity of $33.9 million at the end of fiscal 2008, approximately $22 million was available based upon borrowing base calculations. Our current loan agreement requires us to comply with certain financial and other covenants, including limitations on the amount of our capital expenditures, the maintenance of a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and prohibits us from incurring additional indebtedness, repurchasing outstanding common shares, permitting liens, acquiring, selling or disposing of certain assets, engaging in certain mergers and acquisitions, paying dividends or making certain restricted payments. These limitations may affect our liquidity and limit our ability to make capital expenditures. In addition, our failure to adhere to the financial and other covenants could give rise to a default under the loan agreement. There can be no assurances that we will be able to meet the financial and other covenants in our loan agreement or, in the event of non-compliance, that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments from our lenders. Our financial results may be affected by risks associated with international operations and expansion, including foreign currency fluctuations. We intend to continue to expand and pursue opportunities for our off-shore customer care centers in the Philippines and may consider other international locations. There are certain risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including exposure to currency fluctuations, the necessity to comply with foreign laws, unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, foreign political instability, changes in clients’ sourcing preferences and potentially adverse tax consequences. In particular, we serve an increasing number of U.S. clients from our customer care centers in the Philippines. Contracts with these clients are typically priced in U.S. dollars while costs incurred in operating the centers are denominated in the Philippine peso, which presents a foreign currency exchange risk to us, the amount of which increases as our off-shore operations continue to grow. We have, from time to time, taken limited actions, such as using foreign currency forward contracts, to attempt to mitigate our currency exchange exposure. However, there can be no assurance that we will take any actions to mitigate such exposure in the future and if taken, that such actions will be successful or that future changes in currency exchange rates will not have a material impact on our future operating results, liquidity and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents In addition, we benefit from an income tax holiday as a Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) registrant. We are required to comply with certain financial metrics to continue to qualify for the income tax holiday. There can also be no assurance that we will continue to meet the requirements necessary to enjoy the continued benefits of the PEZA income tax holiday or that the Philippine government will not eliminate or change these requirements in the future. Our inability to realize continued benefits from this income tax holiday could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our principal shareholder can exercise significant control us. Mr. Theodore G. Schwartz, our Chairman, and four trusts and a partnership established by Mr. Schwartz collectively own approximately 50% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Schwartz is able to exercise significant influence over operations and significant control over the outcome of substantially all matters requiring action by our shareholders. Such voting concentration may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. In his role as Chairman, Mr. Schwartz has been involved in an advisory and oversight capacity on certain operational aspects of the Company, particularly with respect to senior management recruiting and transition. On January 29, 2009, Tresar Holdings LLC, an acquisition vehicle formed by Mr. Schwartz, announced that it had informed our Board of Directors that it was proposing to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, other than shares held by Mr. Schwartz, and certain related holders, for a per share purchase price of $1.61 in cash. On March 9, 2009, we announced that the special committee of our Board of Directors and Tresar Holdings LLC had jointly agreed not to further pursue Tresar Holdings’ proposal to acquire the remaining outstanding shares of our common stock not currently held by Theodore G. Schwartz, our Founder and Chairman, and certain related holders. Tresar Holdings withdrew its proposal. Our success depends on key personnel. Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in returning to consistent and improving profitability. See Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Our success depends on our ability to sustain profitability.” The loss of, or failure to motivate, key officers and employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive environment. The outsourcing of customer care services is a highly competitive, growing market and such competition may intensify in the future. Our competitors range in size from small firms offering specialized applications to large firms operating in the broader business process outsourcing market. Many of our competitors have greater resources and capabilities than we do. In addition, market factors are causing clients and prospective clients to demand more competitive pricing and higher quality service. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Competition.” There can be no assurance that we can successfully compete in this environment. Our ability to compete will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to initiate, develop and maintain new client relationships, expand existing client programs, staff and equip suitable customer care facilities in a timely manner, and develop new solutions and enhance existing solutions we provide to our clients. Our ability to develop and implement quality, customized products and services is highly dependent on our computer and telecommunications equipment and software capabilities. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis in the future in order to maintain our competitiveness. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to invest in and develop information technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient expertise or capital to meet this challenge or that the technologies developed by our competitors will not render our products and services obsolete over a period of time. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Technology and Telecommunications” and Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Future Liquidity.” 15 Table of Contents Further, we believe several other factors may affect the demand for our services. The increased use of telephone-based technologies, such as interactive voice response systems, and increased use of the internet could reduce the demand for certain of our customer care offerings. In addition, there may be political concern regarding the movement of service jobs off-shore which could result in potentially adverse legislation, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to anticipate and successfully respond to all such trends in a timely manner. Competitive pressures and changing market conditions could cause our services to lose market acceptance or result in significant price and margin erosion which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Circumstances outside our control such as typhoons, earthquakes, floods and other acts of God, political instability, equipment malfunction, telephone or data service interruptions, changes in the telecommunications market, war and terrorism could seriously harm our domestic or off-shore business. Our success is dependent on the continued operation of our customer care centers. In the event of fire, power loss, typhoon, earthquake, flood or other natural disaster, political instability, and other similar events, the operation of one or more customer care centers could be temporarily or permanently interrupted. If we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our customer care centers our business could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to pay contractual damages to some clients or allow some clients to terminate or renegotiate their contracts. Our Philippine operations are more at risk to adverse weather conditions, including typhoons. We maintain property and business interruption insurance, however, such insurance may not adequately compensate for any losses we may incur. In addition, our business is materially dependent on telephone and data services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies as well as our computer equipment, telephone systems and software. Because of our dependence on third party service providers, any change to the telecommunications market that would disrupt these services or limit our ability to obtain services at favorable rates could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Should we experience a significant increase in the cost of telephone services or a temporary or permanent loss of computer or telephone equipment, systems or services (through casualty or operating malfunction), or should the security of our computer or telephone systems be compromised or breached, our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The risks of war and potential terrorist attacks on our operations cannot be estimated. War and terrorist attacks could disrupt operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could negatively impact our business. Our industry is very labor intensive and has experienced high personnel turnover. Many of our employees receive modest hourly wages and a significant portion of our costs consist of wages to hourly workers. An increase in hourly wages, costs of employee benefits, employment taxes or recruiting and training costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Complex technology-based inbound customer service involves extensive training and requires specially trained employees. Growth in our business will require us to recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate from time to time. A higher turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and decrease operating efficiencies and productivity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire, train and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified employees. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Personnel and Training.” Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation, penalties and may cause us to lose clients. We are dependent on IT networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations and with our partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or customer data. As a result, we are subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect this information. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Government Regulation and Industry Self-Regulation.” If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Our business and our clients’ businesses are subject to federal and state regulation and industry standards Our business is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation. In addition, several of the industries in which our clients operate are similarly regulated, particularly in the telecommunications, healthcare, and financial services industries. Finally, certain of our activities are subject to self-regulatory standards established by the industries in which our clients operate. Federal and state laws governing consumer privacy, the collection and use of consumer data, the use and disclosure of customer proprietary network information, the sale of insurance products, mortgage banking activities and the operations of healthcare and pharmaceutical businesses, and industry standards regarding the security of credit card information, impose regulatory and licensing obligations on us. In addition, federal and state laws regulate telephone solicitations to consumers. Finally, our Part D Medicare enrollment and customer care programs are subject to the rules and regulations of the Center for Medicare Services. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Government Regulation and Industry Self-Regulation.” There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to agency or state proceedings alleging violation of such laws. We also could be subject to a variety of enforcement or private actions due to our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with such regulations or industry standards. Future laws, regulations and industry standards may require us to modify our operations or service offerings in order to effectively meet our clients’ service requirements, and there can be no assurance that additional regulations would not limit our activities or significantly increase the costs of compliance. There is increasing federal and state interest in further regulation of consumer privacy, information security and the regulation of the movement of service jobs off-shore, some aspects of which could impose additional regulatory pressure on our clients’ businesses and, less directly, on our business. Additional regulation in these areas could reduce the demand for our services. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 