Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company cautions the reader that the risk factors discussed below may not be exhaustive. The Company operates in a continually changing business environment and new risk factors emerge from time to time. The Company cannot predict such new risk factors nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. If the Company loses the USAF as a customer, its business would be materially adversely affected. The Company is highly dependent on revenues from the USAF. Revenues from the USAF represented 67.4% and 73.8% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The Company provides transportation services to the USAF under annual contracts. If the Company loses these contracts with the USAF, or if the USAF reduces substantially the amount of business it awards to the Company in a given year, the Company may not be able to replace the lost business and its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company believes that the USAF will continue to contribute a significant portion of the Company’s total revenues in 2007, but the lessening of military activities in connection with the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan could reduce the USAF’s demand for transportation services, which could negatively effect the Company’s results of operations in 2007 and beyond. The Company’s AMC charter business is dependent on its participation in a team accredited to participate in the CRAF program. If one of the team members withdraws from the program, or if one of the Company’s competitors commit additional aircraft to this program, the Company’s share of AMC flying may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition. Each year, the Air Mobility Command grants a certain portion of its AMC charter business to different airlines based on a point system that is determined by the amount and type of aircraft pledged to the CRAF program. The Company participates in the CRAF program through a teaming arrangement with other airlines. The formation of competing teaming arrangements, an increase by other air carriers in their commitment of aircraft to the program, the withdrawal of our team’s current partners, or a reduction of the number of aircraft pledged to the CRAF program by our team could adversely affect the volume of our revenues from our AMC Charter business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s substantial operating lease obligations limit its ability to fund general corporate requirements, limit its flexibility in responding to competitive developments and increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. The Company has significant long-term obligations relating to operating leases in connection with its aircraft, spare engines and its leased real property. At December 31, 2006, these obligations totaled $504.0 million through 2011 and $132.8 million thereafter, which includes lease extensions and aircraft commitments signed by the Company. To provide additional available liquidity, on March 30, 2006, World Airways and North American entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (as amended) with Wachovia Bank, National Association (“Wachovia Loan”), for the issuance of loans and letters of credit up to $50.0 million subject to certain terms, conditions, and limitations. The Company had no borrowing at December 31, 2006. Due to our limited fleet size, if any of our aircraft becomes unavailable, the Company may suffer greater damage to its service, reputation and profitability than airlines with larger fleets. As of December 31, 2006, the Company operates a fleet of 26 aircraft. Given the limited number of aircraft the Company operates, if an aircraft becomes unavailable due to unscheduled maintenance, repairs or other reasons, the Company could suffer greater adverse financial and reputational impact than larger airlines if the flights are delayed or canceled due to the absence of replacement aircraft. If the Company is unable to operate those aircraft for a prolonged period of time for reasons outside of its control, for example, due to catastrophic event or a terrorist act, the financial condition and results of operations could be disproportionately adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Any inability to secure and maintain additional compatible aircraft, engines or spare parts, on terms favorable to the Company or at all, would increase its operating costs and could adversely affect profitability. Any increase in demand for the types of aircraft the Company flies (B-757, B-767, MD-11, and DC-10’s), or may fly in the future, could impact its ability to obtain additional aircraft, engines or spare parts. The Company may be unable to obtain additional suitable aircraft, engines or spare parts on satisfactory terms or at the time needed for its operations or for the implementation of its growth plans. The Company’s business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. The cost of fuel is largely unpredictable and, while most of the Company’s contracts limit the Company’s exposure to changes in the cost of fuel, certain scheduled service business is subject to the impact of fuel price increases. Due to competition, the Company cannot always increase fares on these routes sufficiently to cover fuel price increases. Additionally, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and operating results. In the event of an aircraft accident, the Company may incur substantial losses that may not be entirely covered by insurance. The Company may incur substantial losses in the event of an aircraft accident. These losses may include the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft, the consequent temporary or permanent loss of the aircraft from service, loss of business due to negative publicity, and claims of injured passengers and others and claims of persons for damaged or destroyed cargo. The Company is required by company policy, the DOT, and contractual obligations with lessors to carry liability insurance. The Company currently maintains liability insurance for passengers and third party damages, excluding those caused by war or terrorist attacks, in the amount of $2.0 billion for each occurrence. In addition, the Company currently maintains for World Airways liability insurance provided by the U.S. Government for incidents caused by war or terrorist attacks with per occurrence policy limit for passenger, crew and property liability in the amount of $1.5 billion and third party liability in the amount of $3.0 billion, subject to a $3.0 billion policy aggregate. Also, the Company currently maintains for North American liability insurance provided by the U.S. Government for incidents caused by war or terrorist attacks with per occurrence policy limit for passenger, crew and property liability in the amount of $1.0 billion and third party liability in the amount of $2.0 billion, subject to a $2.0 billion policy aggregate. Additionally, the Company carries aircraft hull, aircraft spare parts and leased engines insurance in amounts required by company policy and contractual obligations. Although the Company believes its insurance coverage is adequate, it cannot provide assurance that the amount of its insurance coverage will not change or that the Company will not be forced to bear substantial losses from accidents or war or terrorist attacks. Substantial claims resulting from an accident could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations, financial results of operations and liquidity and could seriously inhibit customer acceptance of its services. Additionally, should the Company experience an aircraft accident or if the U.S. Government were to discontinue war risk coverage, either event could cause the cost of insurance to increase substantially which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The failure of the Company’s contractors to provide essential services could harm its business. World Airways and North American have agreements with contractors, including other airlines, to provide certain facilities and services required for its operations, including all of the Company’s off-wing engine maintenance and most airframe maintenance. The Company also has agreements with contractors to provide security, ground handling and personnel training. The failure of these contractors to provide essential services that are not otherwise entirely within the Company’s control could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Many of the Company’s employees are represented by unions, and a prolonged dispute with the Company’s employees could have an adverse impact on its operations. The cockpit crewmembers and flight attendants at both World Airways and North American are represented by the IBT. The World Airways cockpit crewmembers are subject to a collective bargaining agreement that will become amendable in March 2009. The World Airways flight attendants are subject to a collective bargaining agreement that became amendable in August 2006. Negotiations began in mid-August 2006 with the IBT. The World Airways aircraft dispatchers, who are represented by the TWU, are subject to a collective bargaining agreement that will become amendable December 31, 2008. Fewer than 15 World Airways employees are covered by this collective bargaining agreement. 9 Table of Contents North American and the IBT are presently in negotiations with the assistance of the National Mediation Board (“NMB”) to conclude an initial cockpit crewmembers collective bargaining agreement. The North American flight attendants, who voted to be represented by the IBT in August 2005, are presently in negotiations with to conclude an initial collective bargaining agreement. The Company is not aware of any substantive effort to organize any other employee group and is unable to predict whether any of its other employees not currently represented by a labor union will elect to be represented by a labor union or collective bargaining unit. The election of such employees for union representation could result in employee compensation and working condition demands that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company is unable to predict when an initial agreement will be reached with the North American cockpit crewmembers and flight attendants and whether the World Airways flight attendants will choose to renew their collective bargaining agreement in 2007. The Company is subject to significant and increasing government regulation and oversight that can materially affect its ability to maintain or increase the level of air operations. The Company is subject to government regulation and control under the laws of the United States and the various other countries in which it does business. The Company is also governed by bilateral air transport services agreements between the U.S. and the countries to which the Company provides airline services. The Company is subject to Title 49 of the United States Code under which the DOT and the FAA exercise regulatory authority. Additionally, foreign governments assert jurisdiction over air routes and fares to and from the U.S., airport operation rights and access to facilities. Due to World Airways’ and North American’s participation in the CRAF, both airlines are subject to inspections approximately every two years by the USAF as a condition of retaining their eligibility to provide military charter flights. The USAF may terminate its contract with either airline if the carrier fails to pass such inspection or otherwise fails to maintain satisfactory performance levels. World Airways and North American periodically receive correspondence from the FAA and DOT with respect to minor noncompliance matters. While the Company believes that both World Airways and North American are currently in compliance in all material respects with all appropriate FAA standards and have obtained all required licenses and authorities, any material non-compliance with such standards or the revocation or suspension of licenses or authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The air transportation industry and the markets the Company serves are highly competitive. The market for outsourcing air passenger and cargo ACMI services, full service charter business and scheduled passenger services is highly competitive. The Company believes that the most important factors for competition in the ACMI outsourcing business are the passenger, payload and cubic capacities of the aircraft, the price, flexibility, quality and reliability of the air transportation services provided, and the age of the aircraft fleet. The Company’s competitors in the passenger charter market include Omni Air International, Miami Air and ATA Airlines and in the cargo charter market include Atlas Air (including Polar Air Cargo), Gemini Air Cargo, Evergreen International Airlines and Centurion Air Cargo, as well as scheduled and non-scheduled passenger carriers that have substantial belly capacity. The Company’s ability to continue to grow depends upon its success in influencing major international airlines that outsourcing some portion of their passenger and cargo business remains more cost-effective than undertaking passenger or cargo operations with their own incremental capacity and resources. The allocation of military air transportation contracts by the USAF is based upon the number and type of aircraft a carrier, alone or through a teaming arrangement, makes available for use in times of peace and national emergencies. The formation of competing teaming arrangements composed of larger partners than those sponsored by the Company, an increase by other air carriers in their commitment of aircraft to the CRAF program, or the withdrawal of the Company’s current partners, could adversely affect the size of the USAF contracts that may be awarded to the Company in future years. The Company’s business is sensitive to general economic conditions, unforeseen events and seasonal fluctuations. As a result, the Company’s prior performance is not necessarily indicative of its future results. The air travel business historically fluctuates on a seasonal basis and in response to general economic conditions. In addition, the airline industry is highly susceptible to unforeseen events that result in declines in revenues or increased costs, such as political instability, regional hostilities, terrorist attacks, recession, fuel price escalation, inflation, adverse weather conditions, consumer preferences, labor instability or regulatory oversight. Also, the Company’s results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those for an entire year and the Company’s prior results are not necessarily indicative of its future results. 10 Table of Contents 