Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following specific risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, as these are important factors, among others, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all of our potential risks or uncertainties. Our financial performance is sensitive to changes in economic conditions that may impact employment and consumer spending and commercial office occupancy. Economic slowdowns in the United States could adversely affect employment levels, consumer spending and commercial office occupancy, which, in turn, could reduce the demand for parking. The reduced demand for parking could negatively impact our revenues and net income. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, and tax rates, are also likely to adversely affect our business. Our concentration of operations in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, particularly in New York City, increases the risk of negative financial fluctuations due to events or factors that affect these areas. Our operations in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, which includes the cities of New York, Newark, Boston, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Baltimore and Washington, D.C. generated approximately 43.2% of our total revenues from continuing operations (excluding reimbursement of management contract expenses) in fiscal year 2006. Revenues from our operations in New York City and surrounding areas accounted for approximately 26.6% of our total revenues from continuing operations (excluding reimbursement of management expenses) in fiscal 2006. The concentration of operations in these areas increases the risk that local or regional events or factors that affect these cities or regions such as severe winter weather, labor strikes, changes in local or state laws and regulations, economic conditions or acts of terrorism, can have a disproportionate impact on our operating results and financial condition. Compliance with and any failure to comply with current regulatory requirements will result in additional expenses and may adversely affect us. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and NYSE Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to Page 12 of 70 Table of Contents comply with evolving standards, and this investment has resulted in and we expect will continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Changes in the insurance marketplace, including significantly higher premiums, higher deductibles and coverage restrictions and increased claims costs, have negatively impacted our net income in recent years and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the future. We purchase insurance covering certain types of claims that occur at parking facilities we own, lease or manage. In addition, we purchase worker’s compensation, group health, director’s and officer’s liability and certain other insurance coverages. Due to changes in the insurance marketplace, we have experienced in recent years a substantial increase in the premiums we pay for most types of insurance coverage and an increase in the deductibles relating to such coverage. We also have experienced an increase in certain claims costs, including worker’s compensation, liability and group health. In addition, coverages of certain types of risk, such as terrorism coverage, have been significantly restricted or are no longer available at a reasonable cost. The changes in the insurance marketplace, including increased premium and claims costs, higher deductibles and coverage restrictions, have negatively impacted our earnings in recent years and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the future. Acts of terrorism, such as the September 11, 2001 attacks, can have a significant adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We estimate that the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 reduced our revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2001 by approximately $5 million and approximately $10 million in the first half of fiscal year 2002. Not only did the attack cause physical damage to some of the parking facilities operated by us, but the reduction in the number of commuters parking in the areas affected, reduction in tourists and local consumers traveling to the area as well as the broader reduction in airplane travel and lower attendance at sporting events, concerts and other venues, also impacted our operations adversely. The closing of streets in the vicinity of the World Trade Center and other areas of New York City and the imposition of certain restrictions on traffic and other security measures in New York City and at the nation’s airports also had a negative impact on our operations. Our operations are concentrated heavily in the downtown areas of major U.S. cities and some are located near landmarks or other sites that have been mentioned as potential targets of terrorists. In addition, we manage the parking operations at approximately 30 airports. Additional terrorist attacks or the imposition of additional security measures, particularly in New York, Washington, D.C. or other major cities in which we have a significant presence, or at airports, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The offer or sale of a substantial amount of our common stock by significant shareholders could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In February 2001, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 covering 7,381,618 shares of our common stock held by certain shareholders. These shares were registered pursuant to registration rights previously granted to these shareholders. Although we believe a significant portion of these shares has been sold, these shareholders may sell any remaining shares that were registered on any stock exchange, market or trading facility on which the shares are traded, or in private transactions. Other substantial shareholders, including the Chairman of Central Parking, Monroe Carell, Jr., the Carell Children’s Trust, and other family members and related entities (the “Carell Family”), are permitted to sell significant amounts of our common stock under Rule 144 and other exemptions from registration under the federal securities laws. In addition, the Carell Family has certain rights to register substantially all of the shares held by the family and related entities. The offer or sale of substantial amounts of our common stock by these or other significant shareholders, particularly if such offers or sales occur simultaneously or relatively close in time, could have a significant negative impact on our stock’s market price. We are dependent on the continued availability of capital to support our business. We have significant working capital requirements, including but not limited to, repair and maintenance obligations for our parking facilities. We are dependant on the cash generated from our operations and Credit Facility to meet our working capital requirements. The Credit Facility contains covenants including those that require us to maintain certain financial ratios, restrict further indebtedness and certain acquisition activity and limit the amount of dividends paid. The primary ratios are a leverage ratio, senior leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio. Quarterly compliance is calculated using a four quarter rolling methodology and measured against certain targets. Our inability to meet debt covenants and debt service payments under the Credit Facility would have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to interest rate risk. We are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based upon our financing, investing and cash management activities. The Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus a tier-based margin dependent upon certain financial ratios. There are separate tiers for the revolving loan and term loan. The weighted average margin as of September 30, 2006, was 200 basis points. The amount outstanding under our Credit Facility was $73.7 million with a weighted average interest rate of Page 13 of 70 Table of Contents 3.7% as of September 30, 2006. We have reduced a portion of our interest rate risk by executing two interest rate swap transactions whereby we have fixed $87.5 million of floating rate debt. The term loan is required to be repaid in quarterly payments of $0.2 million through March 2008 and quarterly payments of $9.1 million from June 2008 through March 2010. An increase (decrease) in LIBOR of 1% would result in no increase (decrease) of annual interest expense since the swaps, which converted the rates to fixed, totaled $87.5 million and the Credit Facility, which was all floating interest, was $73.7 million on September 30, 2006. We expect to pay both quarterly principal amortization and monthly interest payments out of operating cash flow. Our large number of leased and owned facilities increases the risk that we may become unprofitable and that we may not be able to cover the fixed costs of our leased and owned facilities. We leased or owned 1,435 facilities as of September 30, 2006. Although there is more potential for income from leased and owned facilities than from management contracts, they also carry more risk if there is a downturn in the economy, property performance or commercial real estate occupancy rates because a significant part of the costs to operate such facilities typically is fixed. For example, in the case of leases, there are typically minimum lease payments that must be made regardless of the revenues or profitability of the facility. In particular, it is difficult to forecast revenues of newly constructed parking facilities because these facilities do not have an operating history. Start-up costs, the length of the break–in period during which parking demand is built and economic conditions at the time the facility is opened, are very difficult to predict at the time the lease is executed (and the base rent is agreed upon), which is often two or more years prior to the opening of the facility. In the case of owned facilities, there are the normal risks of ownership and costs of capital. In addition, operating expenses for both leased and owned facilities are borne by us and are not passed through to the owner, as is the case with management contracts. In the case of owned facilities and generally in the case of longer-term leased facilities, we also are responsible for property taxes and all maintenance and repair costs, including structural, mechanical and systems repairs. Performance of our parking facilities depends, in part, on our ability to negotiate favorable contract terms and control operating expenses, economic conditions prevailing generally and in areas where parking facilities are located, the nature and extent of competitive parking facilities in the area, weather conditions and the real estate market. An increase in government regulation or taxation could have a negative effect on our profitability. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, and in some cases, municipal and state authorities directly regulate parking facilities. In addition, many cities impose a substantial tax or surcharge on parking services, which generally range from 10% to 50%. Substantial increases in the tax or surcharge on parking such as occurred in recent years in Pittsburgh and Miami can have a significant negative effect on profitability in a given city. The profitability of our business is also affected by increases in property taxes because the Company is responsible for paying property taxes on its owned properties and on many of its leased facilities. Several state and local laws have been passed in recent years that are designed to encourage car-pooling or the use of mass transit or impose certain restrictions on automobile usage. An example is the restrictions imposed by the City of New York in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks, which included street closures and a requirement for passenger cars entering certain bridges and tunnels to have more than one occupant during the morning rush hour. We also are subject to federal, state and local employment and labor laws and regulations, and several cities in which we have operations either have adopted or are considering the adoption of so-called “living wage” ordinances. The adoption of such laws and regulations, the imposition of additional parking taxes or surcharges and increases in property and other taxes could adversely impact our profitability. The sureties for our performance bond program may increase rates and require additional collateral to issue or renew performance bonds in support of certain contracts. Under substantially all of our contracts with municipalities and government entities and airports, we are required to provide a performance bond to support our obligations under the contract. We are also required to provide performance bonds under certain leases and other contracts with non-governmental entities. In recent years, the sureties for our performance bond program increased the rates we pay on these bonds and required us to collateralize a greater percentage of our performance bonds with letters of credit. Although we believe our performance bond program is adequate for its present needs, if we are unable to provide sufficient collateral in the future, our sureties may not issue or renew performance bonds to support our obligations under certain contracts. As is customary in the industry, a surety provider can refuse to provide a bond principal with new or renewal surety bonds. If any existing or future surety provider refuses to provide us with surety bonds, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find alternate providers on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to provide surety bonds could result in the loss of existing contracts or future business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our net income could be adversely affected if accruals for future insurance losses are not adequate. We provide liability, medical and worker’s compensation insurance coverage. We are obligated to pay for each loss incurred up to the amount of a deductible specified in our insurance policies. Our financial statements reflect our anticipated costs based upon Page 14 of 70 Table of Contents loss experience and guidance and evaluation we have received from third party insurance professionals, such as actuaries. There can be no assurance, however, that the ultimate amount of such costs will not exceed the amounts presently accrued, in which case we would need to increase accruals and pay additional expenses. The operation of our business is dependent on key personnel. Our success is, and will continue to be, substantially dependent upon the continued services of our management team. The loss of the services of one or more of the members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with, and historically have been successful in retaining the services of our senior management, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these senior management people in the future. In addition, our future growth depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled operating managers and employees. We have foreign operations that may be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We operate in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and other countries. For the year ended September 30, 2006, revenues from foreign operations represented 6.1% of our total revenues, excluding reimbursement of management contract expenses. Our United Kingdom operations accounted for 24.9% of total revenues from foreign operations, excluding reimbursement of management contract expense and excluding earnings from joint ventures. We receive revenues and incur expenses in various foreign currencies in connection with our foreign operations and, as a result, we are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. We intend to continue to invest in certain foreign leased or owned parking facilities, either independently or through joint ventures, where appropriate, and may become increasingly exposed to foreign currency fluctuations. We believe we currently have limited exposure to foreign currency risk. We have entered into certain foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the foreign exchange risk related to certain intercompany notes we have with our subsidiary in the United Kingdom. See note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. In connection with ownership or operation of parking facilities, we may be liable for environmental problems. Under various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in such property. Such laws typically impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. There can be no assurance that a material environmental claim will not be asserted against us or against our owned or operated parking facilities. The cost of defending against claims of liability, or of remediating a contaminated property, could have a negative effect on our business and financial results. If we cannot maintain positive relationships with labor unions representing our employees, a work stoppage may adversely affect our business. Approximately 3,907 employees are represented by labor unions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew existing labor union contracts on acceptable terms. Employees could exercise their rights under these labor union contracts, which could include a strike or walk-out. In such cases, there are no assurances that we would be able to staff sufficient employees for its short-term needs. Any such labor strike or our inability to negotiate a satisfactory contract upon expiration of the current agreements could have a negative effect on our business and financial results. 