Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s recent operating results may not be indicative of future operating results. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth and may not even be able to grow the business at all. Because of our relatively small size and short operating history, it will be difficult for us to generate similar earnings growth as the Company continues to expand, and consequently our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If the Company experiences a significant decrease in its historical rate of growth, its results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of its operating costs are fixed expenses. The Company’s decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect its business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of the Company’s business. Although the Company seeks to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, the Company anticipates that not all of its loans and other extensions of credit will be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including the duration of the credit, credit risks of a particular customer, changes in economic and industry conditions, and, in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. The Company attempts to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in its loan portfolio. The Company periodically determines the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of its overall loan portfolio, its historical loan loss experience, evaluation of economic conditions, regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality, the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans, and concentration of credit risk. There is no precise method of predicting credit losses; therefore, the Company faces the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed its allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. These risks will likely increase as the Bank’s average loan size continues to increase. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income, and possibly our capital. Lack of seasoning of a portion of the Company’s loan portfolio may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future. Due to the rapid growth of the Bank and the type of loans originated in the past several years, a portion of the loan portfolio and the lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, new loans have more uncertainty in terms of credit quality until they have been outstanding for a period of time, a process the Company refers to as “seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer loan portfolio. Because the Company’s loan portfolio has some unseasoned loans, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes seasoned. If delinquencies and defaults increase, the Company may be required to increase its provision for loan losses, which would adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. An economic downturn, especially one affecting the Horry, Beaufort, and Georgetown counties, could reduce the Company’s customer base, level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. The Company’s success depends significantly upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, new business growth, and housing starts in its markets, especially in Horry, Beaufort, and Georgetown County. If the communities in which the Company operates do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions are unfavorable, the Company’s business may not succeed. An economic downturn would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of the loan portfolio and reduce the level of deposits, which in turn would impact the Company’s business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 91.0% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2007. If an economic downturn occurs in the economy as a whole, or especially in the Horry, Beaufort, and Georgetown Counties, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure the Company’s loans could be adversely affected. Unlike many larger institutions, the Company is not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. An economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect the Company’s business. 14 Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce profitability. Results of operations depend in large part upon the level of the Company’s net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and mortgage-backed securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. Depending on the terms and maturities of assets and liabilities, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on profitability. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While the Company intends to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of its assets and liabilities, the efforts may not be effective and its financial condition and results of operations could suffer. The recent interest rate declines by the Federal Reserve have had an adverse impact on the Company’s net interest rate margin. The Company anticipates that it will be harmed from a declining interest rate environment in the short term (1-3 months) but is expected to benefit over a one year time period. No assurance can be given as to when and in what direction the Federal Reserve will adjust interest rates or that the results the Company anticipates will actually occur. The Company is dependent on key individuals and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail growth and adversely affect its prospects. Our success depends, in part, on the executive management group and the continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan personnel, as well as other management personnel. The loss of the services of several key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s growth strategy and prospects to the extent the Company is unable to replace such personnel. The Company is subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict its activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Compliance with regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of branches. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require it to maintain adequate capital to support growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the cost of compliance could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, have increased the scope, complexity, and costs of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. The Company has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Company has evaluated its internal controls to allow management to report on its internal controls, and for its independent registered public accounting firm to attest to its internal controls for 2007. Effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. The Company’s continued pace of growth may require it to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. The Company is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To support continued growth, the Company may need to raise additional capital. The ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside the Company’s control. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on acceptable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if the Company decides to raise additional equity capital, shareholder interest could be diluted. 15 The Company faces strong competition for customers, which could prevent it from obtaining customers and may cause it to pay higher interest rates to attract customers. The banking business is highly competitive. The Company competes in attracting deposits and in making loans. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in its market, and that the Company may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to the Company. The Company will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. The Company may seek to expand into new markets, lines of business, or offer new products and services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: · the use of estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to expansion into a new market; · the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, opening new offices, and the expenses until these activities generate sufficient volume to support the costs of the expansion; · the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and · the risk of loss of key employees and customers. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could adversely affect the business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 86.5% of the Company’s loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. A weakening of the real estate market in the Company’s market area could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans. This could have an adverse effect on profitability and asset quality. If the Company is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secure these loans, may also negatively impact financial condition. High insurance rates and cancellation of insurance policies along the coast could represent an inherent risk in the loan portfolio. A large percentage of the loans in our portfolio currently include exceptions to the Company’s loan policies and supervisory guidelines. All of the company loans are subject to written loan policies adopted by the Board of Directors and supervisory guidelines imposed by regulators. The Company’s loan policies are designed to reduce the risks associated with the loans by requiring Company personnel to perform certain tasks as part of the underwriting, pricing, and loan closing process. Loans that do not fully comply with our loan policies are known as “exceptions.” The Company categorizes exceptions as policy exceptions, financial statement exceptions and collateral exceptions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 17.5% of the loans in the portfolio included collateral exceptions to loan policies. As a result of these exceptions, such loans may have a higher risk of loss than the loans that comply with the loan policies. In addition, the Company may be subject to regulatory action by federal or state banking authorities if they believe the number of exceptions in the loan portfolio represents an unsafe banking practice. The Company generally underwrites loans in the portfolio in accordance with its own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines. In certain circumstances the Company has approved loans which exceed either its internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines, or both. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $48.0 million of loans, or 80.3% of the Bank’s capital, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory guidelines, of which 14 loans totaling approximately $1.8 million had loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. Supervisory limits on commercial loan to value exceptions are set at 30% of the Bank’s capital. At December 31, 2007, $13.7 million of the commercial loans, or 22.6% of the Bank’s capital, exceeded the supervisory loan to value ratio. The number of loans in the portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in the portfolio. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: Not applicable. 