Item 1A. Risk Factors Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth and may not even be able to grow our business at all. Because of our relatively small size and short operating history, it will be difficult for us to generate similar earnings growth as we continue to expand, and consequently our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the credit; • credit risks of a particular customer; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and 14 • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: • an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio; • our historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of economic conditions; • regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans; and • concentration of credit risk. There is no precise method of predicting credit losses; therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income, and possibly our capital. Lack of seasoning of a portion of our loan portfolio may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future. Due to the rapid growth of our bank over and the type of credit originated in the past several years, a large portion of the loans in our loan portfolio and of our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process we refer to as “seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because our loan portfolio has some unseasoned loans, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. An economic downturn, especially one affecting the Horry and Beaufort County areas, could reduce our customerbase, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, and housing starts in our markets, especially in Horry and Beaufort Counties and to a lesser extent Georgetown County. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. An economic downturn would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 84.6% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006. If an economic downturn occurs in the economy as a whole, or especially in the Horry and Beaufort County areas, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. An economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend in large part upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and mortgage-backed securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. Depending on the terms and maturities of our assets and liabilities, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. After operating in a historically low interest rate environment, the Federal Reserve began raising short-term interest rates in the second quarter of 2004. We anticipate that we will benefit from a rising interest rate environment. However, no assurance can be given that the Federal Reserve will actually continue to raise interest rates or that the results we anticipate will actually occur. 15 We are dependent on key individuals and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growthand adversely affect our prospects. Our success depends, in part, on our executive management group and our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan originators, as well as other management personnel. The loss of the services of several of such key personnel could adversely affect our growth strategy and prospects to the extent we are unable to replace such personnel. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are in the process of evaluating our internal controls to allow management to report on our internal control for our fiscal year 2007, and for our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to our internal controls for fiscal year 2008. We are performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we currently anticipate that we will be able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely manner, as required by Section 404 and the SEC’s related regulations, we could identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet this deadline. If we are not able to implement or maintain the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we could be subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities and the trading price of our stock could decline. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors and regulators could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We currently anticipate that we will fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 within the required time frames. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To support our continued growth, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. We face strong competition for clients, which could prevent us from obtaining clients and may cause us to payhigher interest rates to attract clients. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our client base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of 16 our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: • the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to a target institution; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in the markets in which we intend to expand. To expand our coastal franchise successfully, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. We expect that competition for qualified management in the markets in which we may expand will be intense and that there will be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the community banking industry in these markets. Even if we identify individuals that we believe could assist us in establishing a presence in a new market, we may be unable to recruit these individuals away from more established financial institutions. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy requires both management and financial resources and is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit, and retain talented personnel to manage new offices effectively would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 87.4% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in our primary market area could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secure these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. High insurance rates and cancellation of insurance policies along the coast could represent an inherent risk in the loan portfolio. A large percentage of the loans in our portfolio currently include exceptions to our loan policies and supervisory guidelines. All of the loans that we make are subject to written loan policies adopted by our board of directors and to supervisory guidelines imposed by our regulators. Our loan policies are designed to reduce the risks associated with the loans that we make by requiring our loan officers to take certain steps that vary depending on the type and amount of the loan, prior to closing a loan. These steps include, among other things, making sure the proper liens are documented and 17 perfected on property securing a loan, and requiring proof of adequate insurance coverage on property securing loans. Loans that do not fully comply with our loan policies are known as “exceptions.” We categorize exceptions as policy exceptions, financial statement exceptions and collateral exceptions. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 12.6% of the loans in our portfolio included collateral exceptions to our loan policies. As a result of these exceptions, such loans may have a higher risk of loan loss than the other loans in our portfolio that fully comply with our loan policies. In addition, we may be subject to regulatory action by federal or state banking authorities if they believe the number of exceptions in our loan portfolio represents an unsafe banking practice. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines, or both. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $28.0 million of our loans, or 53.5% of our bank’s capital, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory guidelines, of which 11 loans totaling approximately $1.4 million has loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. Supervisory limits on commercial loan to value exceptions are set at 30% of our bank’s capital. At December 31, 2006, $9.4 million of our commercial loans, or 17.9% of our bank’s capital, exceeded the supervisory loan to value ratio. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in our portfolio. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: Not applicable. 18 