Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Relating to the Company and its Business In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, the following factors could cause actual results to differ from expectations or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition: Our business may be affected by our cash flows from operations and our ability to comply with, or obtain waivers of or changes to, our debt covenants. Our cash flow is significantly impacted by our overall profitability and our ability to collect our clients’ accounts receivable on a timely basis. To the extent that our business with a single client or small group of clients represents a more significant portion of our revenue, a delay in receiving payment could materially adversely affect the availability of cash to fund operations, thereby increasing our reliance on borrowings under our current loan agreements. Our current loan agreements provide the Company with a $27.5 million revolving loan facility which expires in October 2010 (Revolving Credit Facility) and a $15 million term loan which matures in January 2011 (Term Loan.) Our ability to borrow under the Revolving Credit Facility depends on the amount of eligible accounts receivable from our clients and there are limitations on the concentration of these accounts with a single client. In addition, our lenders retain certain reserves against otherwise available borrowing capacity. Our current loan agreements require us to comply with certain financial and other covenants, including limitations on our ability to make capital expenditures, incur additional indebtedness, repurchase outstanding common shares, create liens, acquire, sell or dispose of certain assets, engage in certain mergers and acquisitions, pay dividends and make certain restricted payments. These limitations may affect our liquidity and limit our ability to make capital expenditures. In addition, our failure to adhere to the financial and other covenants could give rise to a default under the loan agreements. There can be no assurances that we will be able to meet the financial and other covenants in our loan agreements or, in the event of non-compliance, that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments from our lenders. A significant change in operating cash flow or a failure to achieve profitability could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to comply with the covenants in the loan agreements. Our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients and the loss of one or more of them, or a reduction in their demand for our services, could materially affect our financial results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a small number of clients. Most of our revenue is concentrated in the healthcare, business services and communications industries. There can be no assurance that we will not become more dependent on a few significant clients, that we will be able to retain any of our larger clients or maintain our current volume or margins with these clients. Should we lose a client or experience a reduction in demand for our services from, or decline in the profitability of, a large client, we may not be able to replace such clients or programs with clients or programs that generate a comparable amount of revenue or profits or terminate such client relationships. Our five largest clients accounted for 76% of our fiscal year 2007 revenue and our ten largest clients accounted for nearly 90% of our fiscal year 2007 revenue. Three of our five largest clients have contracts renewing in 2008 and these clients accounted for approximately 43% of our 2007 revenue. The loss of one or more of our significant clients, a significant downturn in any of our core industries, a trend in any of these industries to reduce their outsourced customer care services, a change in the customer relationship strategy of any of these clients or industries or a change in the volume or profitability of one or more of these client relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our financial results depend on our ability to effectively manage our production capacity and our workforce. Our profitability is influenced significantly by our ability to effectively manage our production capacity and our workforce. To maximize profitability we need to continually increase our revenue per production seat and our capacity utilization, and maximize our workforce productivity. Capacity utilization and workforce productivity may be affected at various times for numerous reasons including call volume, call arrival patterns, our ability to accurately forecast and staff to anticipated volume and call arrival patterns, employee attrition and seasonality. We currently have significantly higher capacity utilization during daytime weekday hours. 13 Table of Contents We periodically assess the long-term capacity of our customer care centers, both domestically and off-shore, including the ability to accommodate new and expanded programs and clients, and make strategic decisions regarding the opening or expansion of customer care centers. We use a workforce administration platform which allows us to more effectively manage our employees’ time, quickly respond to changing client needs and maximize our workforce productivity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve optimum capacity utilization, maximize the productivity of our workforce or keep pace with the anticipated growth in demand for off-shore services. If we maintain idle production seats or fail to effectively manage our workforce productivity, our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Operations and Capacity Utilization.” Our success is subject to the terms of our client contracts. We provide services to our clients under contracts, many of which may be terminated by the client (but not by us) for convenience. In addition, most of our contracts do not have minimum volume requirements and the profitability of each client program may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout various stages of a program. Certain contracts have performance-related bonus and/or penalty provisions, whereby the client may pay us a bonus or we may have to issue a credit based upon our meeting, or failing to meet, agreed-upon service levels and performance metrics. There can be no assurance that our clients will not terminate their contracts before their scheduled expiration date, that the volume of services for these programs will not be reduced or that we will be able to avoid penalties or earn performance bonuses. In addition, there can be no assurance that each client program will be profitable for us or that we will be able to terminate unprofitable client relationships without incurring significant liabilities. The loss of one or more of our significant clients, the substantial reduction of the amount of services we perform for a significant client, the payment of penalties for failure to meet performance metrics, an unprofitable client or client program or our inability to terminate an unprofitable client contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Client Relationships.” Our success depends on our return to profitability. We have experienced operating losses during each of the last four fiscal years and while we reported income before taxes of over $900,000 during the 2006 fourth quarter, we have not been able to deliver consistently improving financial results. Failure to realize continued improvements in key operating and financial metrics could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our principal shareholder can exercise significant control over the Company. Mr. Theodore G. Schwartz, our Chairman, and four trusts and a partnership established by Mr. Schwartz collectively own approximately 50% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Schwartz is able to exercise significant influence over operations and significant control over the outcome of substantially all matters requiring action by our shareholders. Such voting concentration may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Our financial results may be affected by risks associated with international operations and expansion, including foreign currency fluctuations. We intend to continue to expand and pursue opportunities for our off-shore customer care centers in the Philippines and may consider other international locations. There are certain risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including exposure to currency fluctuations, the necessity to comply with foreign laws, unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, foreign political instability, changes in clients’ sourcing preferences and potentially adverse tax consequences. In particular, we serve an increasing number of U.S. clients from our customer care centers in the Philippines. Contracts with these clients are typically priced in U.S. dollars while costs incurred in operating the centers are denominated in the Philippine peso, which presents a foreign currency exchange risk to us, the amount of which increases as our off-shore operations continue to grow. There can be no assurance that a change in the US dollar to peso exchange rate will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In addition, we benefit from an income tax holiday as a Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) registrant. We are required to comply with certain financial metrics to continue to qualify for the income tax holiday. There can also be no assurance that we will continue to meet the requirements necessary to enjoy the continued benefits of the PEZA income tax holiday or that the Philippine government will not eliminate or change these requirements in the future. Our inability to realize continued benefits from this income tax holiday would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our success depends on key personnel. Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. Though we appointed a new President and Chief Executive Officer, there can be no assurance that our executive team will succeed in returning us to consistent and improving profitability. See Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Our success depends on our return to profitability.” The loss of, or failure to motivate, key officers and employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our business operates in a highly competitive market. We operate in a highly competitive growing market and such competition may intensify in the future. Our competitors range in size from small firms offering specialized applications to large, publicly-traded firms operating in the broader business process outsourcing market. Many of our competitors have greater resources and capabilities than we do. In addition, market factors are causing clients and prospective clients to demand more competitive pricing and higher quality service. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Competition.” There can be no assurance that we can successfully compete in this environment. Our ability to develop and implement quality, customized products and services is highly dependent on our computer and telecommunications equipment and software capabilities. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis in the future in order to maintain our competitiveness. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to invest in and develop information technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient expertise or capital to meet this challenge or that the technologies developed by our competitors will not render our products and services obsolete over a period of time. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Technology and Telecommunications” and Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Future Liquidity.” Further, we believe several other factors may affect the demand for our services. The increased use of new telephone-based technologies, such as interactive voice response systems, and increased use of the internet could reduce the demand for certain of our customer care offerings. In addition, political concern regarding the movement of service jobs off-shore, which could result in potentially adverse legislation, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to anticipate and successfully respond to all such trends in a timely manner. Competitive pressures and changing market conditions could cause our services to lose market acceptance or result in significant price and margin erosion which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Circumstances outside our control such as typhoons, earthquakes and other acts of God, political instability, equipment malfunction, telephone or data service interruptions, changes in the telecommunications market, war and terrorism could seriously harm our domestic or off-shore business. Our success is dependent on the continued operation of our customer care centers. In the event of fire, power loss, typhoon, earthquake or other natural disaster, political instability, and other similar events, the operation of one or more customer care centers could be temporarily or permanently interrupted. If we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our customer care centers our business could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to pay contractual damages to some clients or allow some clients to terminate or renegotiate their contracts. Our Philippine operations are more at risk to adverse weather conditions, including typhoons. We maintain property and business interruption insurance, however, such insurance may not adequately compensate for any losses we may incur. In addition, our business is materially dependent on telephone and data services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies as well as our computer equipment, telephone systems and software. Because of our dependence on third party service providers, any change to the telecommunications market that would disrupt these services or limit our ability to obtain services at favorable rates could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Should we experience a significant increase in the cost of telephone services or a temporary or permanent loss of computer or telephone equipment, systems or services (through casualty or operating malfunction), or should the security of our computer or telephone systems be compromised or breached, our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents The risks of war and potential terrorist attacks on our operations cannot be estimated. War and terrorist attacks could disrupt operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could negatively impact our business. Our industry is very labor intensive and has experienced high personnel turnover. Many of our employees receive modest hourly wages and a significant portion of our costs consist of wages to hourly workers. An increase in hourly wages, costs of employee benefits, employment taxes or recruiting and training costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Complex technology-based inbound customer service involves extensive training and requires specially trained employees. Growth in our business will require us to recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate from time to time. A higher turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and decrease operating efficiencies and productivity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire, train and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified employees. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Personnel and Training.” Our business and our clients’ businesses are subject to federal and state regulation and industry standards, including laws and industry standards regarding consumer privacy and information security. Our business is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation. In addition, several of the industries in which our clients operate are similarly regulated, particularly in the telecommunications, healthcare, and financial services industries. Finally, certain of our activities are subject to self-regulatory standards established by the industries in which our clients operate. Federal and state laws governing consumer privacy, the collection and use of consumer data, the use and disclosure of customer proprietary network information, the sale of insurance products, mortgage banking activities and the operations of healthcare, pharmaceutical and gaming businesses, and industry standards regarding the security of credit card information, impose regulatory and licensing obligations on us. In addition, federal and state laws regulate telephone solicitations to consumers. Finally, our Part D Medicare enrollment and customer care programs are subject to the rules and regulations of the Center for Medicare Services. See Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Government Regulation and Industry Self-Regulation.” There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to agency or state proceedings alleging violation of such laws. We also could be subject to a variety of enforcement or private actions due to our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with such regulations or industry standards. Additionally, any violation or alleged violation of consumer privacy laws or any failure or alleged failure to maintain the security of consumer information could be harmful to our reputation and negatively impact our business. Future laws, regulations and industry standards may require us to modify our operations or service offerings in order to effectively meet our clients’ service requirements, and there can be no assurance that additional regulations would not limit our activities or significantly increase the costs of compliance. There is increasing federal and state interest in further regulation of consumer privacy, information security and the regulation of the movement of service jobs off-shore, some aspects of which could impose additional regulatory pressure on our clients’ businesses and, less directly, on our business. Additional regulation in these areas could reduce the demand for our services. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 