Risk Factors The Company cautions the reader that the risk factors discussed below may not be exhaustive. The Company operates in a continually changing business environment and new risk factors emerge from time to time. The Company cannot predict such new risk factors nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The Company’s substantial operating lease obligations and debt limit its ability to fund general corporate requirements, limit its flexibility in responding to competitive developments and increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. The Company has significant long-term obligations relating to operating leases in connection with its aircraft and spare engines and its leased real property. At December 31, 2005, these obligations totaled $507.1 million through 2010 and $213.7 million thereafter, which includes lease extensions and aircraft commitments signed by the Company as of June 30, 2006. At December 31, 2005, the Company had $24.0 million of debt outstanding under the $30.0 million term loan (the “ATSB Loan”). On March 30, 2006 the Company prepaid the remaining principal balance of $24.0 million under the ATSB Loan with funding from its working capital. Additionally on March 30, 2006, World Airways and North American entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Wachovia Bank, National Association (“Wachovia”), for the issuance of loans and letters of credit up to $50.0 million subject to certain terms, conditions, and limitations. There are no amounts outstanding on this facility. The covenants contained in the Company’s loan agreements and its operating leases may limit the Company’s financial and operating flexibility. The ATSB and Wachovia loan agreements and the operating leases relating to some of the Company’s aircraft contain restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the Company. Under these loan agreements, the Company is subject to certain covenants pursuant to which the Company must satisfy various financial covenants requiring it to comply with certain financial ratios and capital expenditures restrictions. The Company is subject to the following restrictions related to its debt and lease arrangements: • The Company is limited in its ability to obtain additional financing. Prior to the prepayment of the ATSB Loan, the Company was limited in its ability to obtain additional financing. Its indebtedness outstanding under the $30.0 million ATSB Loan was secured by substantially all of the Company’s assets. In addition, the ATSB Loan contained restrictive provisions that required prepayments in the event the Company sold any significant assets, received proceeds from future borrowings from other sources or the issuances of certain securities, or received net proceeds from insurance or condemnation. The Company’s indebtedness under the Wachovia Loan and Security Agreement is secured by substantially all of the Company’s accounts receivables and other assets. In addition, the Wachovia agreement contains restrictive provisions from future borrowings from other sources or issuances of certain securities, or receipts of net proceeds from insurance or condemnation. • The Company’s ability to fund general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures, may be impaired. The Company has substantial obligations to pay principal and interest on its debt, lease payments, and other recurring fixed costs. Accordingly, the Company may have to use its working capital to fund such payments and other recurring fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements. • The Company’s ability to respond to competitive developments and adverse conditions may be limited. With a restricted ability to obtain additional financing and with substantial fixed costs, the Company may not be able to fund the capital expenditures required to remain competitive or to withstand prolonged adverse economic conditions. These restrictions and requirements may limit the Company’s financial and operating flexibility. In addition, if the Company fails to comply with these restrictions or to satisfy these requirements, its obligations under the loan agreements and its operating leases may be accelerated. The Company cannot assure that it would be able to satisfy all of these obligations upon their acceleration. The failure to satisfy these obligations would materially 10 Table of Contents adversely affect the Company’s business, operations, financial results or liquidity as well as the value of the Company’s common stock. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, non-operating expenses and financial results. Under the Wachovia loan agreement, the Company’s borrowings bear interest at fluctuating rates. The applicable rate is determined by either the bank’s base lending rate, the Federal Funds Rate, the Eurodollar or London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus an applicable percentage. The rates applicable to outstanding borrowings fluctuate based on many factors including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, and general interest rates, including the prime rate, and the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market. The Company has not hedged its interest rate exposure and, accordingly, the Company’s interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate. To the extent these rates increase, the Company’s interest expense will increase, in which event the Company may have difficulties making interest payments and funding its other fixed costs, and its available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. If the Company loses the USAF as a customer, its business would be significantly adversely affected. The Company is highly dependent on revenues from the USAF. Revenues from the USAF represented 73.8% and 77.5% of the Company’s total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company provides transportation services to the USAF under annual contracts. If the Company loses these contracts with the USAF, or if the USAF reduces substantially the amount of business it awards to the Company in a given year, the Company may not be able to replace the lost business and its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company believes that the USAF will continue to contribute a significant portion of the Company’s total revenues in 2006, but the lessening of military activities in connection with the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan could reduce the USAF’s demand for transportation services, which could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations in 2006 and beyond. The Company’s non-military customers may cancel or default on their contracts with the Company. Non-military customers that have contracted with the Company may cancel or default on their contracts, and the Company may not be able to obtain other business to replace the resulting loss in revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company’s five largest non-military customers accounted for approximately 16.0% of its total operating revenues. If these contract customers cancel or default on their obligations and the Company is not able to obtain other business, its financial position, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. The cost of fuel is largely unpredictable and, while most of the Company’s contracts cover the cost of fuel, certain scheduled service business is subject to the impact of fuel price increases. Due to competition, the Company cannot always increase fares on these routes sufficiently to cover fuel price increases. Additionally, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a negative impact on the Company’s operations and operating results. If the Company’s mix of business creates lower yields relative to the cost per block hour, the Company’s business will suffer. Due to the high fixed costs of leasing and maintaining the Company’s aircraft and the costs for cockpit crewmembers and flight attendants, each of the Company’s contracts must achieve an appropriate balance between utilization of the aircraft and yield in order to operate profitably. The Company looks to expand contracts with existing customers while at the same time searching for new opportunities that will allow the Company to increase both utilization and yields. The Company’s current contracts do not fully utilize all aircraft each day. New customer needs may not fit with the available time on each aircraft. The Company may not be able to charge a rate sufficient to cover the total cost of providing the service including overhead. The Company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected by periods of low aircraft utilization and low yields. The Company may not be able to execute customer contracts that match aircraft lease lives to customer contract terms. 11 Table of Contents Although the Company’s preferred strategy is to enter into long-term contracts with its customers, the terms of the Company’s existing customer contracts are in most cases substantially shorter than the terms of the Company’s lease obligations with respect to its aircraft. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to enter into additional contracts with new or existing customers or that the Company will be able to obtain enough additional business to fully utilize each aircraft over the remaining term of the Company’s leases for said aircraft. The Company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected by the mismatch of aircraft lease obligations and customer contracts. In the event of an aircraft accident, the Company may incur substantial losses that may not be entirely covered by insurance. The Company may incur substantial losses in the event of an aircraft accident. These losses may include the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft, the consequent temporary or permanent loss of the aircraft from service, loss of business due to negative publicity, and claims of injured passengers and others and claims of persons for damaged or destroyed cargo. The Company is required by company policy, contractual obligations with lessors, and the DOT to carry liability insurance. The Company currently maintains liability insurance for passengers and third party damages, excluding those caused by war or terrorist attacks, in the amount of $1.5 billion. In addition, the Company currently maintains liability insurance provided by the U.S. Government for passenger liability and third party damages caused by war or terrorist attacks in the amount of $1.5 billion per occurrence with an annual aggregate limit of $3.0 billion. Additionally, the Company carries aircraft hull, aircraft spare parts and leased engines insurance in amounts required by company policy and contractual obligations. Although the Company believes its insurance coverage is adequate, it cannot provide assurance that the amount of its insurance coverage will not change or that the Company will not be forced to bear substantial losses from accidents or war or terrorist attacks. Substantial claims resulting from an accident could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations, financial results of operations and liquidity and could seriously inhibit customer acceptance of its services. Additionally, should the Company experience an aircraft accident or if the U.S. Government were to discontinue war risk coverage, either event could cause the cost of insurance to increase substantially which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company’s aircraft could become more expensive to maintain, which may affect its profitability. World Airways and North American are subject to regulation by the FAA, with respect to aircraft maintenance and other matters affecting air safety. Manufacturer Service Bulletins (“MSBs”) and FAA Airworthiness Directives (“ADs”) could cause aircraft operators to be subject to extensive aircraft inspections and/or modifications. It is possible that MSBs or ADs applicable to the types of aircraft or engines included in the Company’s fleet could be issued in the future. The Company cannot estimate the cost of possible compliance with new MSBs and/or ADs, but they could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The failure of the Company’s contractors to provide essential services could harm its business. World Airways and North American have agreements with contractors, including other airlines, to provide certain facilities and services required for its operations, including all of the Company’s off-wing engine maintenance and most airframe maintenance. The Company also has agreements with contractors to provide security, ground handling and personnel training. The failure of these contractors to provide essential services that are not otherwise entirely within the Company’s control could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Many of the Company’s employees are represented by unions, and a prolonged dispute with the Company’s employees could have an adverse impact on its operations. The cockpit crewmembers and flight attendants at both World Airways and North American are represented by the IBT. The World Airways flight attendants are subject to a collective bargaining agreement that will become amendable in August 2006. Negotiations are expected to begin prior to the amendable date. 12 Table of Contents The World Airways aircraft dispatchers, who are represented by the TWU, are subject to a collective bargaining agreement that became amendable December 31, 2003. Fewer than 15 World Airways employees are covered by this collective bargaining agreement. In December 2005, World Airways reached a Tentative Agreement with the TWU, which was subsequently ratified by the dispatchers. The agreement will become amendable December 31, 2008. North American and the IBT are presently in negotiations with the assistance of the NMB to conclude an initial cockpit crewmembers collective bargaining agreement. The North American flight attendants, who voted to be represented by the IBT in August 2005, have yet to begin negotiations on an initial contract. The Company is not aware of any active effort to organize any other employee group and is unable to predict whether any of its other employees not currently represented by a labor union will elect to be represented by a labor union or collective bargaining unit. The election of such employees for union representation could result in employee compensation and working condition demands that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company is unable to predict when an initial agreement will be reached with the North American cockpit crewmembers and flight attendants and whether the World Airways flight attendants will choose to renew their collective bargaining agreement in 2006. The Company is subject to significant and increasing government regulation and oversight that can materially affect its ability to maintain or increase the level of air operations. The Company is subject to government regulation and control under the laws of the United States and the various other countries in which it operates. The Company is also governed by bilateral air transport services agreements between the U.S. and the countries to which the Company provides airline services. The Company is subject to Title 49 of the United States Code under which the DOT and the FAA exercise regulatory authority. Additionally, foreign governments assert jurisdiction over air routes and fares to and from the U.S., airport operation rights and to access facilities. Due to World Airways’ and North American’s participation in the CRAF, both airlines are subject to inspections approximately every two years by the USAF as a condition of retaining their eligibility to provide military charter flights. The USAF may terminate its contract with either airline if the carrier fails to pass such inspection or otherwise fails to maintain satisfactory performance levels. World Airways and North American periodically receive correspondence from the FAA with respect to minor noncompliance matters. While the Company believes that both World Airways and North American are currently in compliance in all material respects with all appropriate FAA standards and have obtained all required licenses and authorities, any material non-compliance with such standards or the revocation or suspension of licenses or authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company’s operating costs could increase as a result of past, current or new regulations that impose additional requirements and restrictions on air transportation operations. The air transportation industry is heavily regulated. Both federal and state governments from time to time propose laws and regulations that impose additional requirements and restrictions on air transportation operations. Implementing these measures, such as aviation ticket taxes and passenger safety regulations, have increased operating costs for the Company and the air transportation industry as a whole. In addition, new security measures imposed by the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the “Security Act”) or otherwise by the FAA as a result of terrorist attacks, are expected to continue to increase costs for the Company and the air transportation industry as a whole. Depending on the implementation of these and other laws and regulations, the Company’s operating costs could increase significantly. Certain governmental agencies, such as the DOT and the FAA, have the authority to impose mandatory orders, such as ADs, related to the Company’s aircraft, and impose civil penalties for violations of applicable laws and regulations, each of which can result in material costs and adverse publicity. The Company cannot predict which laws and regulations will be adopted or what other actions regulators might take. Accordingly, the Company cannot guarantee that future legislative and regulatory acts will not have a material impact on its operating results. The air transportation industry and the markets the Company serves are highly competitive. The market for outsourcing air passenger and cargo ACMI services, full service charter business and scheduled passenger services is highly competitive. The Company believes that the most important factors for competition in the ACMI outsourcing business are the age of the aircraft fleet, the passenger, payload and cubic capacities of the 13 Table of Contents aircraft, and the price, flexibility, quality and reliability of the air transportation services provided. The Company’s competitors in the passenger charter market include Omni Air International, Miami Air and ATA Airlines and in the cargo charter market include Atlas Air (including Polar Air Cargo), Gemini Air Cargo, Evergreen and Centurion Air Cargo, as well as scheduled and non-scheduled passenger carriers that have substantial belly capacity. The Company’s ability to continue to grow depends upon its success in convincing major international airlines that outsourcing some portion of their passenger and cargo business remains more cost-effective than undertaking passenger or cargo operations with their own incremental capacity and resources. The allocation of military air transportation contracts by the USAF is based upon the number and type of aircraft a carrier, alone or through a teaming arrangement, makes available for use in times of peace and national emergencies. The formation of competing teaming arrangements composed of larger partners than those sponsored by the Company, an increase by other air carriers in their commitment of aircraft to the CRAF program, or the withdrawal of the Company’s current partners, could adversely affect the size of the USAF contracts that may be awarded to the Company in future years. The Company depends on the expertise of its management team. If key individuals leave unexpectedly, the Company’s business and operations could suffer. Many of the Company’s executive officers are key to the management of the Company’s business and operations. The Company’s future success depends on its ability to retain these officers and other capable managers. Although the Company believes that it could replace key personnel given adequate prior notice, the unexpected departure of key executive officers could cause substantial disruption to the Company’s business and operations. In addition, the Company may not be able to retain and recruit talented personnel without incurring substantial costs. The Company’s business is sensitive to general economic conditions, unforeseen events and seasonal fluctuations. As a result, the Company’s prior performance is not necessarily indicative of its future results. The air travel business historically fluctuates on a seasonal basis and in response to general economic conditions. In addition, the airline industry is highly susceptible to unforeseen events that result in declines in revenues or increased costs, such as political instability, regional hostilities, terrorist attacks, recession, fuel price escalation, inflation, adverse weather conditions, consumer preferences, labor instability or regulatory oversight. Also, the Company’s results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those for an entire year and the Company’s prior results are not necessarily indicative of its future results. The airline industry has incurred significant losses resulting in airline restructurings and bankruptcies, which could result in changes in our industry. In 2005, the domestic airline industry as a whole reported its fifth consecutive year of losses, which is causing fundamental and permanent changes in the industry. These losses have resulted in airlines renegotiating or attempting to renegotiate labor contracts, reconfiguring flight schedules, furloughing or terminating employees, as well as considering other efficiency and cost-cutting measures. Despite these actions, several airlines have sought reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code permitting them to reduce labor rates, restructure debt, terminate pension plans and generally reduce their cost structure. It is foreseeable that further airline reorganizations, bankruptcies or consolidations may occur, the effects of which the Company is unable to predict. The Company cannot provide assurance that the occurrence of these events, or potential changes resulting from these events, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The U.S. government ceasing to provide adequate war risk insurance could increase our operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions. The U.S. government currently provides insurance coverage for certain claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. Should this coverage no longer be offered, the coverage that may be available to the Company through commercial aviation insurers may have substantially less desirable terms, result in higher costs and not be adequate to protect the Company’s risk, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 14 Table of Contents The market price for the Company’s Common Stock is volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations in response to the Company’s operating results and other factors. The market price of the shares of the Company’s common stock has varied significantly and may be volatile depending on news announcements and changes in general market conditions. In particular, news announcements regarding quarterly results of operations, competitive developments, litigation or governmental regulatory actions impacting the Company may adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. In addition, the sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock in a short period of time could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Also, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume volatility. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies whose shares are traded. Market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company cannot assure its stockholders that the market price of its common stock will not decline in the future. In May 2006, the common stock of the Company was delisted from the Nasdaq National Market and the Company’s common stock began trading on the Pink Sheets under the ticker symbol “OTC:WLDA.PK”. The Company has appealed the delisting decision. However, there is no assurance that the Company will prevail in its appeal of the delisting decision. At June 15, 2006, there were outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,156,001 shares of the Company’s common stock. Sales in the public market of shares issued upon the exercise of the Company’s outstanding warrants could adversely affect the market value of the Company’s stock. Delaware law, as well as the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, contain anti-takeover provisions that may indirectly affect the value of the Company’s Common Stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law and the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Certain of these provisions allow the Company to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the Company’s common stock. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of the Company’s common stock. In addition, the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation provides for its Board of Directors to be divided into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Classification of the Company’s Board of Directors expands the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and may tend to discourage an acquisition proposal for the Company. FAA regulations restrict ownership of the Company’s Common Stock by non-U.S. citizens, which may lessen demand for the Company’s stock. Because World Airways and North American are U.S. certificated airlines, under applicable regulatory restrictions, no more than 25% of the Company’s voting stock may be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons who are not U.S. citizens. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide that no shares of capital stock may be voted by or at the direction of persons who are not U.S. citizens unless such shares are registered on a separate foreign stock record. No shares of common stock owned by persons who are not U.S. citizens will be registered on the Company’s foreign stock record to the extent that the aggregate ownership by persons who are not U.S. citizens reflected in the foreign stock record would exceed 25% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. 