Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this report that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Current and future acquisitions and alliances may expose us to new risks, or cause us to fail to perform as expected. Conversely, our failure to complete acquisitions, enter into suitable alliances or integrate acquired companies may hinder our growth and future profitability. One of our key strategies is to grow through acquisitions, joint ventures, and other strategic alliances, particularly with respect to our retail operations and attainment of applications for mobile users. Joint ventures and strategic alliances may expose us to operational, regulatory, and market risk as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements. In addition, we may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates or alliance partners. Even if we identify suitable candidates or partners, we may be unable to complete and acquisition or alliance on commercially acceptable terms. If we fail to identify appropriate candidates or complete desired acquisitions, we may not be able to implement its growth strategies effectively or efficiently. In addition, our acquisition and integration process may divert management from operating our existing business, negatively affecting our earnings and revenues. In addition, our ability to successfully integrate the acquired companies or their operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including diversion of management’s attention and difficulties in retaining clients of the acquired companies. Furthermore, any acquired companies may not perform as expected for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes or the loss of key customers and personnel. If we are not able to realize the benefits envisioned from such acquisitions, joint ventures, or other strategic alliances, ‘our overall profitability and growth plans may be hindered. Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy is currently undergoing a period of slowdown and very high volatility and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. A substantial portion of our revenues comes from residential and small business customers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. While we believe that the weakening economy had a modest effect on our net subscriber additions during recent months, if these economic conditions continue to deteriorate, the growth of our business and results of operations may be affected. Reduced consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer certain services at promotional prices, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. 5 We have a history of losses and negative cash flows from operations and we may not be profitable in the future. We had losses and an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2009. Our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations and net income is dependent, among other things, on the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, market conditions, cost control, and our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. The financial statements included elsewhere in this report do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Furthermore, developing and expanding our business will require significant additional capital and other expenditures. Accordingly, if we are not able to increase our revenue, then we may never achieve or sustain profitability and might have to cease operations. Our independent auditors have added an explanatory paragraph in their report expressing substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We have been able to meet our operating requirement by receiving net proceeds of $7,410,000 related to financing during the year ended December 31, 2009. We will need to receive additional capital to continue our operations into 2010. Until we reach and maintain positive cash flow, which management believes will be in the fourth quarter of 2010, we will be required to raise additional capital to fund our operations. Financing may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. There is no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional capital or that the proceeds of any future financings will be sufficient to meet our future capital needs. It is not likely that we will be able to continue our business without additional financing. The price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular, has recently experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. From January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009, the per share closing price of our common stock on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board fluctuated from a high of $ 1.10 to a low of $0.15 both on a post-split basis. We believe that the volatility of the price of our common stock does not solely relate to our performance and is broadly consistent with volatility experienced in our industry. Fluctuations may result from, among other reasons, responses to operating results, announcements by competitors, regulatory changes, economic changes, market valuation of technology firms and general market conditions. In addition, in order to respond to competitive developments, we may from time to time make pricing, service or marketing decisions that could harm our business. Also, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In either case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. The trading price of our common stock could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to these or other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If the market price of our common stock decreases, then shareholders may not be able to sell their shares of our common stock at a profit. Our common stock are sporadically or “thinly-traded” on the OTCBB, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company and we are relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. As a consequence, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. 6 The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly-traded public float and limited operating history. The price at which you purchase our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common stock are sporadically or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common stock are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or “risky” investment due to our limited operating history and lack of profits to date, lack of capital to execute our business plan, and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our technologies. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. The following factors may add to the volatility in the price of our common shares: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results, market acceptance of our government regulations, announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures, our capital commitments, and additions or departures of our key personnel. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common stock will be at any time, including as to whether our common stock will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect, if any, that the sale of shares or the availability of common stock for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. Volatility in our common stock price may subject us to securities litigation. As discussed in the preceding risk factor, the market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management’s attention and resources. The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. As long as the trading price of our common stock is below $5 per share, the open-market trading of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules. The “penny stock” rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction before the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the broker-dealer must deliver, before the transaction, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability or decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to sell the common stock, and may result in decreased liquidity for our common stock and increased transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common shares as compared to other securities. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. 7 We may not be able to successfully manage our growth. Our liability to manage the Company’s growth will require that we continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems, and to motivate and effectively manage our employees. If our management is unable to manage such growth effectively, then the quality of our services, our ability to retain key personnel and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our executive officers have been employed by the Company for a relatively short period of time, and may not be able to implement our business strategy. The failure to effectively implement our business strategy will have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Chief Executive officer took office on April 21, 2009, our President and Chief Operating Officer took office August 10, 2008, our Chief Financial Officer took office on August 24, 2009, our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales took office on June 23, 2009 and our Chief Executive Officer of our Asia operations took office on March 7, 2010 There can be no assurance that they will function successfully as a management team to implement our business strategy. If they are unable to do so, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the fields of engineering, marketing and finance. Our performance is dependent on the services of our management as well as on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate other key employees in the fields of engineering, marketing and finance. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and there is a limited number of persons with knowledge of and experience with VoIP. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel, and the failure to do so could hinder our ability to implement our business strategy and could cause harm to our business. The general condition of the telecommunications market will affect our business. Continued pricing declines may result in a decline in our operating results. We are subject to market conditions in the telecommunications industry. Our operations could be adversely affected if pricing continues to decline as it has in the past few years. If pricing declines continue, then we may experience adverse operating results. Risk Related to doing business in the Peoples Republic of China. We acquired D Mobile in March, 2010. Mobile’s operations are primarily located in the Peoples Republic of China (“PRC”). Accordingly, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political, and legal conditions in China. China’s economy differs for the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to government regulation and control of foreign exchange, the level of development, growth rate and the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented certain measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the PRC economy generally, they may also negatively affect us. For example, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments of changes in tax regulations applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970’s emphasizing market-oriented reforms, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and improved corporate governance, the PRC government still owns a substantial portion of the productive assets in China and continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. In addition, the PRC government exercises significant control over China’s economic growth by controlling the allocation of resources and payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and giving preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 8 In late 2003, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as raising bank reserves against deposit rates and placing additional limitation on the ability of commercial banks to make loans and raise interest rates, in an attempt to slow down specific segments of China’s economy that the government believed to be overheating. In 2009, however, in response to the world economic crisis, the PRC government cut interest rates and announced a stimulus plan in an attempt to help sustain growth. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our liquidity, access to capital, financial results as well as our ability to operate our business. Fluctuation in the value of the Chinese Yuan (Renminbi ,or RMB) may have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment. We acquired D Mobile in February, 2010. D Mobiles operations are primarily located in the PRC. The value of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005 the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the current policy, the RMB has been permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. The change in the policy has resulted in an approximate 18.8% appreciation in the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and April 9, 2010. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Substantially, all of D- Mobile’s revenues and cost are denominated in the RMB, and a significant portion of Mobile’s financial assets are also denominated in the RMB. Any significant revaluation of the RMB could materially and adversely affect Mobile’s cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position. Any fluctuations of the exchange rate between the RMB and U.S. dollar could also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business operations in China primarily through its D Mobile subsidiary which operates under the Duo Guo brand. Our operations in China are governed by the PRC laws and regulations. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to wholly owned foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is principally based on statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but typically have limited precedential value Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions (and the non binding nature of such decisions), the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations raise uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part of the government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of its violation of these policies and rules until after a violation occurs. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention. Contract drafting, interpretation and enforcement in China involve significant uncertainty. We, through our D Mobile subsidiary, have entered into numerous contracts governed by the PRC law, many of which are material to our business. Compared to contracts in the United States, contracts governed by the PRC law tend to contain less detail and are not as comprehensive in defining contracting parties’ rights and obligations. As a result, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China are not as developed as in the United States, and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Therefore, we may be subject to disputes under its material contracts, and if such disputes arise, we cannot assure you that we will prevail. Due to the materially of certain contracts to our business, any disputes involving such contracts, even without merit, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Changes in PRC laws and regulations on labor and employee benefits may adversely affect our business and results of operations. As a result of the D Mobile acquisition, Geos will be conducting a significant portion of its business in China, which will be subject to PRC laws and regulations on labor and employee benefits. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented policies to strengthen the protection of employees and obligate employers to provide more benefits to their employees. In addition, an employment contract law came into effect in China on January 1, 2008 and its implementation regulation came into effect on September 18, 2008. The PRC employment contract law and related legislation required more benefits to be provided to employees, such as an increase in pay or compensation for termination of employment contracts. As a result, employers incurred higher labor cost. If additional employment and labor laws are brought to law, additional labor cost may be incurred and could have an adverse impact on Geos’ business and results of operations. 9 The VoIP telephony market is subject to rapid technological change. Newer technology may render our technology obsolete which would have a material, adverse impact on our business and results of operations. VoIP telephony is an emerging market that is characterized by rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products, and continuing and rapid technological advancement. To compete successfully in this emerging market, we must continue to design, develop, manufacture, and sell new and enhanced VoIP telephony software products and services that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability at lower cost. Our success in designing, developing, manufacturing, and selling such products and services will depend on a variety of factors, including: · the identification of market demand for new products; · the scalability of our VoIP telephony software products; · product and feature selection; · timely implementation of product design and development; · product performance; · cost-effectiveness of current products and services and products under development; · our ability to successfully implement service features mandated by federal and state law; · effective manufacturing processes; and · effectiveness of promotional efforts. Additionally, we may also be required to collaborate with third parties to develop our products and may not be able to do so on a timely and cost-effective basis, if at all. We have in the past experienced delays in the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products, and such delays will likely occur in the future. If we are unable, due to resource constraints or technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, if such new or enhanced products do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, or if such new product introductions decrease demand for existing products, our operating results would decline and our business would not grow. The continued growth of the Internet as a medium for telephone services is uncertain. If this growth does not continue, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The continued market acceptance of the Internet as a medium for telephone services is subject to a high level of uncertainty. Our future success will depend on our ability to significantly increase revenues, which will require widespread acceptance of the Internet as a medium for telephone communications. There can be no assurance that the number of consumers using the Internet for telephone communications will grow. If use of the Internet for telephone communications does not continue to grow, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our business faces security risks. Our failure to adequately address these risks could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our VoIP operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against the threat of such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Consumer concern over Internet security has been, and could continue to be, a barrier to commercial activities requiring consumers to send their credit card information over the Internet. Computer viruses, break-ins, or other security problems could lead to misappropriation of proprietary information and interruptions, delays, or cessation in service to our customers. Moreover, until more comprehensive security technologies are developed, the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the Internet as a merchandising medium. Our failure to adequately address these risks could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. Our ability to do business depends, in part, on our ability to license certain technology from third parties. We rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and there can be no assurance that these third party technology licenses will be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. If we cannot license the technology we need on acceptable commercial terms, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. 10 Products and services like the ones we offer change rapidly and therefore, we must continually improve them. However, our need to invest in research and development may prevent us from ever being profitable. Products and services like the ones we offer are continually upgraded in an effort to make them work faster, function easier for the user and provide more options. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. If we fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, then our products could become less attractive to potential customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. However, any investment in research and development and technological innovation will cause our operating costs to increase. This could prevent us from ever achieving profitability. We sell a service that allows our customers to make telephone calls over the Internet. Intellectual property infringement claims brought against us, even without merit, could require us to enter into costly licenses or deprive us of the technology we need. The service we sell allows our users to make telephone calls over the Internet. Third parties may claim that the technology we develop or license infringes their proprietary rights. Any claims against us may affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Any infringement claims, even those without merit, could require that we pay damages or settlement amounts or could require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements to avoid service implementation delays. Any litigation or potential litigation could result in product delays, increased costs or both. In addition, the cost of litigation and the resulting distraction of our management resources could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If successful, a claim of product infringement could completely deprive us of the technology we need. We have developed our underlying software and we try to protect it from being used by others in our industry. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on copyright, trade secret and patent laws to protect our content and proprietary technologies and information, including the software that underlies our products and services. Additionally, we have taken steps that we believe will be adequate to establish, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that such laws and steps will provide sufficient protection to our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain rights to use our products or technologies. We have six issued patents and thirteen pending patent applications related to embedded software technology and methods of use. There can be no assurance that these pending patents will be issued, or what the scope of the allowed claims will be issued. Even if the balance of patents pending are issued, the limited legal protection afforded by patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights to the intellectual property covered by these patents. Furthermore, the laws of many foreign countries in which we do business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Although we have implemented and will continue to implement protective measures in those countries, these efforts may also not be successful. Additionally, even if our domestic and international efforts are successful, our competitors may independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially similar or superior to our technologies. If our products contain defects, then our sales would be likely to suffer, and we may even be exposed to legal claims. Defects in our products could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Our business strategy calls for the development of new products and product enhancements which may from time to time contain defects or result in failures that we did not detect or anticipate when introducing such products or enhancements to the market. In addition, the markets in which our products are used are characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations and by errors, failures and bugs in third-party platforms that can impede proper operation of our products. Despite product testing, defects may still be discovered in some new products or enhancements after the products or enhancements are delivered to customers. The occurrence of these defects could result in product returns, adverse publicity, loss of or delays in market acceptance of our products, delays or cessation of service to our customers or legal claims by customers against us. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. 11 Sales to customers based outside the United States have recently accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, which exposes the Company to risks inherent in international operations. Our strategic plan includes increases in foreign sales in order to increase our revenues. However, international sales are subject to a number of risks, including changes in foreign government regulations, laws, and communications standards; export license requirements; currency fluctuations, tariffs and taxes; other trade barriers; difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; longer accounts receivable collection cycles; difficulty in managing across disparate geographic areas; difficulties associated with enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; expenses associated with localizing products for foreign markets; and political and economic instability, including disruptions of cash flow and normal business operations that may result from terrorist attacks or armed conflict. If the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the currency of our foreign customers should increase, then the resulting effective price increase of our products to these foreign customers could result in decreased sales. In addition, to the extent that general economic downturns impact our customers, the ability of these customers to purchase our products could be adversely affected. Payment cycles for international customers are typically longer than those for customers in the United States. If we are able to increase our foreign sales significantly, the occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Doing business over the Internet may become subject to governmental regulation. If these regulations substantially increase the cost of doing business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are not currently subject to direct federal, state, or local regulation, and laws or regulations applicable to access to or commerce on the Internet, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other VoIP services, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet or other VoIP services covering issues such as user privacy, “indecent” materials, freedom of expression, pricing content and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. The adoption of any such laws or regulations might also decrease the rate of growth of Internet use, which in turn could decrease the demand for our products and services or increase the cost of doing business or in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We were late in filing this Annual Report, and may be unable to timely file periodic reports in the future. We were unable to timely file this Annual Report, and may continue to be unable to timely file our annual and quarterly periodic reports with the SEC in the future. Additional failures to timely file periodic reports could impair our eligibility to have our shares listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, as well as delay our eligibility to register our securities on Form S-3. We may become subject to litigation. We may be subject to claims involving how we conduct our business or the market for or issuance of the Common Stock or other securities. Any such claims against the Company may affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Such claims, including those without merit, could require us to pay damages or settlement amounts and would require a substantial amount of time and attention from our senior management as well as considerable legal expenses. Although we do not anticipate that our activities would warrant such claims, there can be no assurances that such claims will not be made. We depend on third-party vendors for key Internet operations including broadband connectivity, termination capability and different operating systems. The loss of any of our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our relationships with third party vendors of Internet development tools and technologies including providers of switches, network termination and operational and billing specialized operations. There can be no assurance that the necessary cooperation from third parties will be available on acceptable commercial terms or at all. Although there are a number of providers of these services, if we are unable to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with such third parties on acceptable commercial terms, or if our competitors are better able to leverage such relationships, then our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully compete with current or future competitors. The market for telecom services is highly competitive, and rapidly changing. In addition to intense competition from VoIP services providers, we also face competition from traditional telephone systems integrators and providers. 12 Our competitors range from the large incumbents such as Verizon and AT&T to newer, large VolP telephonyproviders such as Vonage and Skype. These companies generally have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition and larger existing customer bases than we have. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products or services than we can. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. If we cannot do so, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to comply with the FCC’s requirements to provide 911 services to our customers. Our inability to comply with these requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. On June 3, 2005 the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) issued the VoIP 911 Order adopting rules that require interconnected VoIP providers to provide their new and existing subscribers with 911 services no later than November 28, 2005. On November 5, 2005, the FCC issued a public notice stating that VoIP providers who failed to comply with the VoIP 911 Order by November 28, 2005 would not be required to discontinue the provision of interconnected VoIP service to any existing customers, but would be required to discontinue marketing VoIP service and accepting new customers for VoIP service in all areas where the providers are not transmitting 911 calls to the appropriate PSAP (public safety answering point) in full compliance with the FCC’s rules. Because we have not fully complied with the VoIP 911 Order, we are subject to this restriction. We cannot be certain that we will be able to fully comply with this VoIP 911 Order. Because it would prevent us from marketing and accepting new customers in certain areas, our inability to comply with the VoIP 911 Order may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comment None Item 