Item 1A. Risk Factors We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Many of the following important factors discussed below have been contained in our prior filings with the SEC. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results of operations for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 (and the individual fiscal quarters therein), and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related to the Proposed Merger with Fiserv The announced merger with Fiserv may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our results of operations. If the merger is not completed, the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. In addition, in response to the announcement of the merger, our customers and strategic partners may delay or defer decisions which could have a material adverse effect on our business regardless of whether the merger is ultimately completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees of our company may experience uncertainty about their future 16 Table of Contents roles with the combined company. These conditions may adversely affect employee morale and our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. In addition, focus on the merger and related matters have resulted in, and may continue to result in, the diversion of management’s attention and resources. To the extent that there is uncertainty about the closing of the merger, or if the merger does not close, our business may be harmed if customers, strategic partners or others believe that they cannot effectively compete in the marketplace without the merger or if there is customer and employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of the company on a stand-alone basis. If the merger does not occur, we will not benefit from the expenses we have incurred in preparation for the merger. If the merger is not consummated, we will have incurred substantial expenses for which no ultimate benefit will have been received by us. We currently expect to incur significant out-of-pocket expenses for services in connection with the merger, consisting of financial advisor, legal and accounting fees and financial printing and other related charges, many of which may be incurred even if the merger is not completed. Moreover, under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay a termination fee of $176 million, depending upon the reason for termination, to Fiserv in connection with a termination of the merger agreement. Risks Related to Our Business The market for our electronic commerce services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough for us to sustain profitability. If the number of electronic commerce transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe future growth in the electronic commerce market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. Our future profitability depends upon our ability to implement our strategy successfully to increase adoption of electronic billing and payment methods. Our future profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to implement our strategy successfully to increase adoption of electronic billing and payment methods. Our strategy includes investment of time and money during fiscal 2008 in programs designed to: • drive consumer awareness of electronic billing and payment; • encourage consumers to sign up for and use the electronic billing and payment services offered by our distribution partners; • address consumer concerns regarding privacy and security of their data in using electronic billing and payment services; • continue to refine our infrastructure to handle seamless processing of transactions; • continue to develop state-of-the-art, easy-to-use technology; • increase the number of bills we can present and pay electronically; and • successfully integrate Corillian online banking applications with CheckFree’s electronic billing and payment services. If we do not successfully implement our strategy, revenue growth may be minimized, and expenditures for these programs will not be justified. 17 Table of Contents Our investment in these programs may have a negative impact on our short-term profitability. Additionally, our failure to implement these programs successfully or to substantially increase adoption of electronic commerce billing and payment methods by consumers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is also possible that the significant amount of press connecting identity theft and online activities might inhibit the growth of consumers using the Internet, which could decrease the demand for our products or services, increase our cost of doing business or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on us. We face significant competition in our each of our Divisions — Electronic Commerce, Software and Investment Services. Increased competition or other competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, competition will persist and may increase and intensify in the future. In the Electronic Commerce Division, we face significant competition for all of our products. Our primary competition is the continuance of traditional paper-based methods for receiving and paying bills, on the part of both consumers and billers. In addition, the possibility of billers and CSPs, including large bank clients, continuing to use or deciding to create in-house systems to handle their own electronic billing and payment transactions remains a significant competitive threat. Our large bank customers may explore the possibility of internally performing portions of the outsourced billing and payment services that we provide to them. In-house solutions have always been and will continue to be an option for our customers and a competitive factor facing our business. Metavante, a division of Marshall and Ilsley Corporation, competes with us most directly from the perspective of providing pay anyone solutions to financial services organizations. In 2006, Online Resources Corp. completed the acquisition of Princeton eCom to become a larger full service banking, billing and bill payment competitor. A number of other companies compete with us by providing some, but not all, of the services that make up our complete e-bill and electronic pay anyone service. For example, Yodlee has publicly stated its strategy is to shift from being an account aggregation provider to become more of a bill payment processor, online banking provider and end-to-end financial services provider. Also, MasterCard International provides a service which allows electronic bill payments, and Visa has recently promoted heavily its credit and debit card products as a convenient means for consumers to pay their bills. Numerous small firms provide technologies that can enable these and other companies to compete with us, and we regularly monitor combinations and alliances of any of the above. In the area of Internet consumer banking, we primarily compete with other companies that provide outsourced Internet finance solutions to large financial institutions, including S1 Corporation and Financial Fusion, Inc. Within this market segment, we also compete with companies that offer software platforms designed for internal development of Internet-based financial services software, such as IBM’s WebSphere, and the internal information technology personnel of financial institutions that want to develop their own solutions. In addition, we occasionally compete with vendors who primarily target community financial institutions with Internet banking solutions. For the business banking services that financial institutions offer their commercial customers, we also compete with vendors of cash management systems for large corporations. Our products and services that allow consumers to pay billers directly also face competition. We compete with biller-direct billing and payment Internet sites. Western Union and MoneyGram compete with our walk-in payment services. Each has a national network of retail and agent locations. We also compete with smaller walk-in payment providers in different regions of the United States and with billers who have created in-house systems to handle walk-in payments. BillMatrix, a division of Fiserv, and SpeedPay, a division of Western Union, compete with our phone payments business. 18 Table of Contents We expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors expand their product lines and services. In addition, many companies that provide outsourced Internet finance solutions are consolidating, creating larger competitors with greater resources and broader product lines. The markets for our Software and Investment Services products are also highly competitive. In Software, our competition comes from several different market segments and geographies, including large diversified computer software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products. In Investment Services, our competition comes primarily from providers of portfolio accounting software and outsourced services and from in-house solutions developed by large financial institutions. Security and privacy breaches in our electronic transactions may damage customer relations and inhibit our growth. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We electronically transfer large sums of money and store personal information about consumers, including bank account and credit card information, social security numbers and merchant account numbers. If we are unable to protect, or consumers perceive that we are unable to protect, the security and privacy of our electronic transactions, our growth and the growth of the electronic commerce market in general could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach may: • cause our customers to lose confidence in our services; • deter consumers from using our services; • harm our reputation; • expose us to liability; • increase our expenses from potential remediation costs; and • decrease market acceptance of electronic commerce transactions. New trends in criminal acquisition and illegal use of personally identifiable data make maintaining the security and privacy of such data more costly and time intensive. The increased cost, along with the increased ability of organized criminal elements focusing on identity theft and identity fraud, may materially impact our reputation as a provider of secure electronic billing and payment services. While we believe that we utilize proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market conditions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential subscribers. We rely on third parties to distribute our electronic commerce and investment services products, which may not result in widespread adoption. In Electronic Commerce, we rely on our contracts with financial services organizations, businesses, billers, Internet portals and other third parties to provide branding for our electronic commerce services and to market our services to their customers. Similarly, in Investment Services, we rely upon financial institutions, including broker dealers, money managers and investment advisors, to market investment accounts to consumers and thereby increase portfolios on our CheckFree APL system and use of our portfolio management software products. These contracts are an important source of the growth in demand for our electronic commerce and investment service products. If any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Consolidation in the financial services industry may adversely affect our ability to sell our electronic commerce services, investment services and software. Mergers, acquisitions and personnel changes at key financial services organizations have the potential to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This consolidation could cause us to lose: • current and potential customers; • business opportunities, if combined financial services organizations were to determine that it is more efficient to develop in-house services similar to ours or offer our competitors’ products or services; and • revenue, if combined financial services organizations were able to negotiate a greater volume discount for, or discontinue the use of, our products and services. We may be unsuccessful in integrating acquisitions, which could result in increased expenditures or cause us to fail to achieve anticipated cost savings or revenue growth. We are currently seeking to integrate recently acquired businesses as described in this report, including our acquisitions of Carreker, Corillian and Upstream. There are risks inherent in these types of transactions, such as: difficulty in assimilating or integrating the operations, technology, platforms and personnel of the combined companies; difficulties and costs associated with integrating and evaluating the internal control systems of acquired businesses; disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses and marketplace developments; problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; expenses associated with the amortization of identifiable intangible assets; additional or unanticipated operating losses, expenses or liabilities of acquired businesses; impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners; and fluctuations in value and losses that may arise from equity investments. One customer accounts for a significant percentage of our consolidated revenues. We have one customer, Bank of America, that accounted for approximately 19% of our total consolidated revenues ($189.5 million) for fiscal year 2007, which reflects its use of products and services in all three of our business segments. The majority of this revenue comes from within our Electronic Commerce Division. The loss or renegotiation of our Electronic Commerce Division contract with Bank of America or a significant decline in the number of transactions we process for it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. No other customer accounts for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. If we do not successfully renew or renegotiate our agreements with our customers, our business may suffer. Our agreements for electronic commerce services with financial services organizations generally provide for terms of two to five years. Our agreements with our portfolio management customers are generally for similar terms. If we are not able to renew or renegotiate these agreements on favorable terms as they expire, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The profitability of our Software Division and certain software products in our Electronic Commerce Division depend, to a substantial degree, upon our software customers electing to annually renew their maintenance agreements. If a substantial number of our software customers declined to renew these agreements, our revenues and profits in this business segment would be materially adversely affected. Our future profitability depends on a decrease in the cost of processing payment transactions. If we are unable to continue to decrease the cost of processing transactions, our margins could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many factors contribute to our ability to decrease the cost of processing transactions, including our Sigma quality 20 Table of Contents program, our customer care efficiency program, our processing technology optimization program, and our focus on continually increasing the number of transactions we process electronically. Our electronic rate, or percentage of transactions processed electronically, was approximately 84% at the end of fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007. We experience seasonal and other fluctuations in our revenues causing our operating results to fluctuate. We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our software sales, and we expect to experience similar fluctuations in the future. Our software sales and associated license revenue have historically been affected by calendar year end, our fiscal year end, buying patterns of financial services organizations and our sales compensation structure, which measures sales performance at our June 30 fiscal year end. Further, in our Electronic Commerce Division, we often experience fluctuations in transaction volume and revenue on a quarterly basis. Our analysis has revealed a previously undetected cyclical pattern within the quarters of a given fiscal year that does not impact overall annual transaction growth. We have learned that the sequence of long months or short months in a given quarter, the sequence of long or short months before and after a quarter end date and the mix of processing and non-processing days within the quarter affects sequential quarterly transaction growth. We now believe that, barring unusual events, CSP based sequential quarterly transaction growth in the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year tends to be lower than CSP based sequential quarterly transaction growth in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year. As a result, we believe we are better able to forecast transaction growth; however, there can be no assurance that we will always be able to accurately forecast such growth. While we do not believe we have identified all factors that could negatively or positively affect transaction growth, including various consumer behavior patterns, we believe that recent consumers to the service engage in fewer transactions than new consumers added to the service in previous years. A slow down in our transaction growth could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seasonality and other quarterly fluctuations can impact our quarterly revenue. The transactions we process expose us to fraud and credit risks. Losses resulting from returned transactions, merchant fraud or erroneous transmissions could result in liability to financial services organizations, merchants or subscribers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although ameliorated by reversibility arrangements with many billers, the electronic and conventional paper-based transactions we process expose us to credit risks. These include risks arising from returned transactions caused by: • insufficient funds; • unauthorized use; • stop payment orders; • payment disputes; • closed accounts; • theft; • frozen accounts; and • fraud. We are also exposed to credit risk from merchant fraud and erroneous transmissions. The attempts by both federal and state governments to combat identity fraud may impose restrictions on the financial community which make the appropriate sharing of data for fraud prevention impractical and overly burdensome. In the event of legislation, our ability to mitigate fraud costs and write-offs may be negatively impacted. 21 Table of Contents If we, or our implementation partners, do not effectively implement our solutions acquired from Corillian, we may not achieve anticipated revenues or gross margins. Our solutions acquired from Corillian are complex and must integrate with other complex data processing systems. Implementing those solutions is a lengthy process, generally taking between three and nine months to complete. In addition, we generally recognize revenues on a percentage-of-completion basis, so our revenues are often dependent on our ability to complete implementations within the time periods that we establish for our projects. We rely on a combination of internal and outsourced teams for our implementations. If these teams encounter significant delays in implementing our solutions for a customer or fail to implement our solutions effectively or at all, we may be unable to recognize any revenues from the contract or may incur losses from the contract if our revised project estimates indicate that we recognized excess revenues in prior periods. In addition, we may incur monetary damages or penalties if we are not successful in completing projects on schedule. From time to time, we agree to penalty provisions in our contracts that require us to make payments to our customers if we fail to meet specified milestones or that permit our customers to terminate their contracts with us if we fail to meet specified milestones. If we fail to perform in accordance with established project schedules, we may be forced to make substantial payments as penalties or refunds and may lose our contractual relationship with the applicable customers. We may experience significant losses due to our reliance on agents for walk-in payment services. Through our contractual relationships with billers, we guarantee consumer payments made at our retail agent locations regardless of whether an agent makes timely deposits of funds collected. We could suffer significant losses if we are unable to manage and control agents making correct and timely deposits, or if we are unable to maintain a sufficient retail agent network. We may experience breakdowns in our processing systems that could damage customer relations and expose us to liability. We depend heavily on the reliability of our processing systems in both our Electronic Commerce and Investment Services Divisions. A system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Not only would we suffer damage to our reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss, but we may also be liable to third parties or owe service credits to our customers. Many of our contractual agreements with financial institutions require the payment of credits if our systems do not meet certain operating standards. In addition, in our Electronic Commerce Division, we guarantee the delivery of payments, and any failure on our part to perform may result in late payments or penalties to third parties on behalf of subscribers to our services. In our Investment Services Division, a failure of our system could result in incorrect or mistimed stock trades that may result in third party liability. To successfully operate our business, we must be able to protect our processing and other systems from interruption, including from events that may be beyond our control. Events that could cause system interruptions include but are not limited to: • fire; • natural disaster; • pandemic outbreak; • unauthorized entry; • power loss; • telecommunications failure; • computer viruses; • terrorist acts; and • war. 22 Table of Contents Although we have taken steps to protect against data loss and system failures, there is still risk that we may lose critical data or experience system failures. Currently, with the exception of CheckFree APL, we outsource some of our disaster recovery operations to a third party vendor, which puts us at risk of the vendor’s unresponsiveness in the event of breakdowns in our systems. Furthermore, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. We may experience software defects, computer viruses and development delays, which could damage customer relations, decrease our potential profitability and expose us to liability. Our products are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays, and the underlying software may contain undetected errors, viruses or defects. Defects in our software products and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in: • additional development costs; • diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts; • loss of credibility with current or potential customers; • harm to our reputation; or • exposure to liability claims. In addition, we rely on technologies supplied to us by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability for warranty claims through disclaimers in our software documentation and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot assure you that these measures will be successful in limiting our liability. Our products and services must interact with other vendors’ products, which may result in system errors. Our products are often used in transaction processing systems that include other vendors’ products, and, as a result, our products must integrate successfully with these existing systems. System errors, whether caused by our products or those of another vendor, could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products, and any necessary modifications could cause us to incur significant expenses. If we do not respond to rapid technological change or changes in industry standards, our services could become obsolete and we could lose our customers. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and technology, permitting competitors to duplicate our products and services. Our success and ability to compete depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology, which includes several patents for our electronic billing and payment processing system and our operating technology. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our technology. We also enter into confidentiality and assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and vendors, and generally control access to and distribution of our software documentation and other intellectual property. We also limit customer use of our intellectual property by entering into license agreements which limit the scope of a 23 Table of Contents customer’s use of the intellectual property. We cannot assure you that these measures will provide all of the protection that we need. Because our means of protecting our intellectual property rights may not be adequate, it may be possible for a third party to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we sell our products do not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. A competitor may also be able to sidestep our intellectual property rights by performing key process steps in foreign countries where our United States patent protection does not apply or where we do not have separate intellectual property protection. Unauthorized copying, use or reverse engineering of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A third party also could claim that our technology infringes its proprietary rights. As the number of software products in our target markets increases and the functionality of these products overlap, we believe that software developers may increasingly face infringement claims. In addition, there has been an increase in patent activity by financial firms during recent years which may increase the number of infringement claims in our market space. These claims, even if without merit, can be time-consuming and expensive to defend. A third party asserting infringement claims against us in the future may require us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or litigation. Our business could become subject to increased government regulation, which could make our business more expensive to operate. Our business is currently subject to numerous rules and regulations promulgated by various local, state and federal governmental entities and it is likely that this regulation may increase or change in the future. Such increase or change could make our business more expensive to operate and our products less desirable to use. In particular, due to increased focus by the government on terrorist activities, we may see additional regulation and enforcement targeted at money laundering or making payments to certain prohibited individuals or groups. We have noticed an increased focus by the federal banking regulators, as well as OFAC, on the processing of electronic payments and this focus may shift to us, and other businesses like ours, in the future. FinCEN, the principal federal regulator charged with regulating money services businesses, continues to provide further interpretation on the meaning of “money transmission.” If those interpretations become applicable to our business, then we may be obligated to comply with significant additional regulatory obligations. Various governmental entities have become interested in further regulating the use and sharing of data and protection of the privacy of this data. This interest will likely result in increased regulation around security and privacy of personally identifiable information. It is also possible that new laws and regulations may be enacted with respect to the Internet, including taxation of electronic commerce activities. Because electronic commerce in general, and most of our products and services in particular, are so new, the effect of an increase in regulation or amendment to existing regulation is uncertain and difficult to predict. Any such changes, however, could lead to increased operating costs and reduce the convenience and functionality of our products or services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. The Federal Reserve rules with respect to its ACH Network incorporate the National Automated Clearinghouse Association (“NACHA”) Rules which provide that we can only access the ACH Network through a bank. If the NACHA Rules, which are incorporated into the Federal Reserves rules governing its ACH Network, were to change to further restrict our access to the ACH Network or limit our ability to provide ACH transaction processing services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our walk-in payment business is subject to government regulation and any violation of such regulations could result in civil or criminal penalties or a prohibition against providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. We conduct our walk-in payment business through CheckFreePay. CheckFreePay is licensed as a money transmitter in those states where such licensure is required. These licenses require CheckFreePay to 24 Table of Contents demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and also require CheckFreePay to file periodic reports. In addition to state licensing requirements, CheckFreePay is subject to regulation in the United States by FinCEN, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. CheckFreePay has developed a program to monitor its business for compliance with regulatory requirements and has developed and implemented policies and procedures to monitor all of its transactions in order to comply with federal reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Notwithstanding these efforts, the complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. In addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. A weak economy could have a materially adverse impact on our business. A weak United States economy could have a material adverse impact on our business. In a weak economy, companies may postpone or cancel new software purchases or limit the amount of money they spend on technology and marketing. In our Investment Services Division, growth depends upon individuals and companies continuing to invest in the United States equity markets. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may not accurately predict our future performance. Our quarterly results of operations have varied significantly and probably will continue to do so in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include: • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • loss of customers due to competitors or in-house solutions; • relative rates of acquisition of new customers; • seasonal patterns; • delays in the introduction of new or enhanced services, software and related products by us or our competitors or market acceptance of these products and services; and • other changes in operating expenses, personnel and general economic conditions. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily predictive of our future results, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. In addition, our operating results in a future quarter or quarters may fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors and, as a result, the price of our common stock may fluctuate. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has been volatile since December 31, 2000. Since December 31, 2000, our stock price has been volatile, trading at a high of $58.25 per share and a low of $7.45 per share. The volatility in our stock price has been caused by but not limited to: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our transaction and consumer growth; • announcements by us, our competitors or our customers; • announcements of the introduction of new or enhanced products and services by us or our competitors; • announcements of joint development efforts or corporate partnerships in the electronic commerce market; • market conditions in the banking, telecommunications, technology and other emerging growth sectors; • rumors relating to our competitors or us; and • general market or economic conditions. 25 Table of Contents Availability of significant amounts of our common stock for sale in the future could adversely affect our stock price. The availability for future sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, or issuance of common stock upon the exercise of stock options or warrants could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. As of June 30, 2007, we had outstanding 87,974,284 shares of our common stock, of which 81,924,475 shares were held by non-affiliates. The holders of the remaining 6,049,809 shares were entitled to resell them only by a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 or an applicable exemption from registration. As of June 30, 2007, we also had: • up to 6,143,599 shares available for issuance under our stock option and stock incentive plans, under which there are (1) outstanding options to purchase 2,937,117 shares of our common stock, of which options for 2,582,236 shares were fully vested and exercisable at an average weighted exercise price of approximately $31.52 per share, and (2) 797,383 outstanding shares of restricted stock; • issued warrants to purchase 7,500,000 shares of our common stock, of which warrants for 3,500,000 shares were fully vested and exercisable at a weighted exercise price of approximately $29.90 per share; and • up to 1,929,424 shares available for issuance under our Associate Stock Purchase Plan. As of June 30, 2007, the following entities held shares or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock in the following amounts: • Microsoft, which held 8,567,250 shares; • The former members of Integrion Financial Network, L.L.C. (“Integrion”) and their assignees collectively held warrants to purchase up to 1,500,000 shares, which warrants were fully vested and exercisable; • Bank One, which held warrants to purchase 1,000,000 shares, which warrants were fully vested and exercisable; and • Bank of America, which held 450,000 of the vested Integrion warrants and additional warrants to purchase up to 5,000,000 shares, 4,000,000 of which warrants were not currently vested, and expire on September 30, 2010. Each of Bank One, Bank of America and the former members of Integrion may be entitled to registration rights under certain circumstances. If the former members of Integrion, Bank One or Bank of America, by exercising their registration rights, cause a large number of shares to be registered and sold in the public market, these sales may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by any of the parties described above, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in the merger agreement with Fiserv, our organizational documents and Delaware corporation law make any change in control more difficult. We have agreed to be acquired by Fiserv, subject to a number of conditions, including the approval of our stockholders. The merger agreement includes provisions that would make it more difficult for a competing party to acquire us. These provisions include our agreements not to solicit other offers and not to provide information to a potential bidder unless our board of directors determines that a superior proposal could be made by the person to whom we provide the information, as well as our agreement under specified circumstances to pay a termination fee to Fiserv if we terminate the merger agreement and complete another transaction. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock 26 Table of Contents and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • division of our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • removal of our directors by the stockholders only for cause upon 80% stockholder approval; • prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • ability to issue additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval; • prohibiting our stockholders from unilaterally amending our certificate of incorporation or by-laws except with 80% stockholder approval; and • advance notice requirements for raising business or making nominations at stockholders’ meetings. We also have a stockholder rights plan that allows us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of our preferred stock under the stockholder rights plan could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of our common stock. In some circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. In connection with our proposed merger with Fiserv, we entered into an amendment to our stockholder rights plan which provides that neither the merger agreement nor the consummation of the merger or the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement will trigger the separation or exercise of the stockholder rights or any adverse event under the our stockholder rights plan. We also are subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. No such unresolved comments exist. 