Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Current and future acquisitions and alliances may expose Geos to new risks, or fail to perform as expected. Conversely, Geos’ failure to complete acquisitions, enter into suitable alliances or integrate acquired companies may hinder its growth and future profitability. One of Geos’ key strategies is to grow through acquisitions, joint ventures, and other strategic alliances, particularly with respect to its retail operations and attainment of applications for mobile users. Joint ventures and strategic alliances may expose Geos to operational, regulatory, and market risk as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements. In addition, Geos may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates or alliance partners. Even if Geos identifies suitable candidates or partners, Geos may be unable to complete an acquisition or alliance on commercially acceptable terms. If Geos fails to identify appropriate candidates or complete desired acquisitions, Geos may not be able to implement its growth strategies effectively or efficiently. In addition, Geos’ acquisition and integration process may divert management from operating Geos’ existing business, negatively affecting Geos’ earnings and revenues. In addition, Geos’ ability to successfully integrate the acquired companies or their operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including diversion of management’s attention and difficulties in retaining clients of the acquired companies. Furthermore, any acquired companies may not perform as expected for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes or the loss of key customers and personnel. If Geos is not able to realize the benefits envisioned from such acquisitions, joint ventures, or other strategic alliances, ‘Geos’ overall profitability and growth plans may be hindered. Current economic conditions may continue to adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy is has undergone a period of slowdown and very high volatility, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. A substantial portion of our revenues comes from retail consumers whose spending patterns may be negatively affected by prevailing economic conditions. If economic conditions were to continue to deteriorate, the growth of our business and results of operations could be affected. Reduced consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer certain services at promotional prices, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. 7 We may not be able to successfully compete with current or future competitors. As discussed above under “Item 1. Business,” the products offered by our subsidiaries face unique competitive obstacles in their respective markets, including direct competition from companies providing similar products and services, as well as indirect competition from other product and service categories that may draw customers and resources away from our companies’ products and services. These and other unforeseen obstacles could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our business faces security risks. Our failure to adequately address these risks could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our content delivery systems. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against the threat of such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Consumer concern over Internet security has been, and could continue to be, a barrier to commercial activities requiring consumers to send their credit card information over the Internet. Computer viruses, break-ins, or other security problems could lead to misappropriation of proprietary information and interruptions, delays, or cessation in service to our customers. Moreover, until more comprehensive security technologies are developed, the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the Internet as a merchandising medium. Our failure to adequately address these risks could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. We have a history of losses and negative cash flows from operations and we may not be profitable in the future. We had a loss of $12,403,535 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. We had an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2010 of $69,662,170. Our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations and net income is dependent, among other things, on the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, market conditions, cost control, and our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. The financial statements included elsewhere in this filing do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Furthermore, developing and expanding our business will require significant additional capital and other expenditures. Accordingly, if we are not able to increase our revenue, then we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have been able to meet our operating requirement by receiving net proceeds of $6,647,000 related to financing during the year ended December 31, 2010. We will need to receive additional capital to continue our operations into 2011. Until we reach and maintain positive cash flow, we will be required to raise additional capital to fund our operations. Financing may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. There is no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional capital or that the proceeds of any future financings will be sufficient to meet our future capital needs. It is not likely that we will be able to continue our business without additional financing. Dilution of our ownership interest in D Mobile could further reduce our control over D Mobile’s operations and corporate governance. It is likely that we will be forced to raise additional capital through either the sale of newly issued D Mobile shares or the sale of outstanding D Mobile shares currently owned by Geos, either of which would necessarily result in a dilution of our interest in D Mobile and potentially further reduce our control over D Mobile’s operations and corporate governance. As D Mobile’s operations are expected to be our primary source of revenue, any further loss of control over D Mobile could negatively affect the financial stability of Geos as a whole. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth. Our ability to manage the Company’s growth will require that we continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems, and to motivate and effectively manage our employees. If our management is unable to manage such growth effectively, then the quality of our services, our ability to retain key personnel and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 8 Changes in our board and management team may negatively impact our business. Our previous Chief Financial Officer resigned in October of 2010, and our Chief Executive Officer of our Asia operations resigned in January of 2011. The Chief Executive Officer of our Asia operations also served on our Board of Directors. Partially, as a result, our current executive officers have been employed by the company for a relatively short period of time, and may not be able to implement our business strategy. The failure to effectively implement our business strategy will have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Chief Executive officer took office on April 21, 2009, our President and Chief Operating Officer took office on August 10, 2009, our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales took office on June 23, 2009, and our Chief Financial Officer took office on January 7, 2011. There can be no assurance that they will function successfully as a management team to implement our business strategy. If they are unable to do so, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the fields of engineering, marketing and finance. Our performance is dependent on the services of our management as well as on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate other key employees in the fields of engineering, marketing and finance. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and there are a limited number of persons with knowledge of and experience with the products and markets that make up the core businesses of D Mobile and Shoot It!. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel, and the failure to do so could hinder our ability to implement our business strategy and could cause harm to our business. Shifts or advances in available technology could render certain products offered by our subsidiaries less desirable or even obsolete. Much of the potential success of D Mobile’s kiosk model is predicated on the general lack of fast, low-cost wireless or broadband access in China and other target markets. Dramatic increases in the speed and availability of such access, in conjunction with decreases in the costs associated with such access, could severely impact the demand for D Mobile’s services. Likewise, improvements in digital picture frames, low-cost, high definition monitors, and other display technologies could reduce the demand for Shoot It’s postcard messaging service. These and other unforeseen changes in available technology could negatively impact the Company’s finances and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK The price of our Common Stock has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular, has recently experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. From January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010, the per share closing price of our Common Stock on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board fluctuated from a high of $0.27 to a low of $0.02. We believe that the volatility of the price of our Common Stock does not solely relate to our performance and is broadly consistent with volatility experienced in our industry. Fluctuations may result from, among other reasons, responses to operating results, announcements by competitors, regulatory changes, economic changes, market valuation of technology firms and general market conditions. In addition, in order to respond to competitive developments, we may from time to time make pricing, service or marketing decisions that could harm our business. Also, our Company’s operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In either case, the trading price of our Common Stock would likely decline. The trading price of our Common Stock could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to these or other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If the market price of our Common Stock decreases, then shareholders may not be able to sell their shares of our Common Stock at a profit. Our Common Shares are sporadically or “thinly-traded” on the OTCBB, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company and we are relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common shares will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. As a consequence, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. 9 The market price for our common shares is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly-traded public float and limited operating history. The price at which you purchase our common shares may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common shares at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or “risky” investment due to our limited operating history and lack of profits to date, lack of capital to execute our business plan, and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our technologies. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. The following factors may add to the volatility in the price of our common shares: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results, market acceptance of our government regulations, announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures, our capital commitments, and additions or departures of our key personnel. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect, if any, that the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. Volatility in our common share price may subject us to securities litigation. As discussed in the preceding risk factor, the market for our Common Shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management’s attention and resources. The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. As long as the trading price of our common shares is below $4 per share, the open-market trading of our common shares will be subject to the “penny stock” rules. Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for purposes relevant to the Company, as any equity security that has a minimum bid price of less than $4.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $4.00 per share, subject to a limited number of exceptions which are likely not available to us. It is likely that our shares will be considered to be penny stocks for the immediately foreseeable future. This classification severely and adversely affects any market liquidity for our common stock. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the penny stock rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and that that person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. 10 The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form, sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination, and that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stock in both public offerings and in secondary trading and commission’s payable to both the broker–dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these regulations, broker–dealers may not wish to engage in the above-referenced necessary paperwork and disclosures and/or may encounter difficulties in their attempt to sell shares of our common stock, which may affect the ability of selling shareholders or other holders to sell their shares in any secondary market and have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in any secondary market. These additional sales practice and disclosure requirements may impede the sale of our securities. In addition, the liquidity for our securities may decrease, with a corresponding decrease in the price of our securities. Our shares, in all probability, will be considered subject to such penny stock rules for the foreseeable future, and our shareholders may, as a result, find it difficult to sell their securities. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. RISK RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN THE PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA. Political, regulatory and economic conditions in the Peoples Republic of China may adversely impact the successful expansion and operation of D Mobile. Since acquiring D Mobile in 2010, the Company has invested significant resources into D Mobile’s operations and expansion. D Mobile’s operations are primarily located in the Peoples Republic of China (PRC). Accordingly, Geos’ business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political, and legal conditions in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to government regulation and control of foreign exchange, the level of development, growth rate and the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented certain measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the PRC economy generally, they may also negatively affect Geos. For example, Geos’ business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments of changes in tax regulations applicable to Geos. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970’s emphasizing market-oriented reforms, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and improved corporate governance, the PRC government still owns a substantial portion of the productive assets in China and continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. In addition, the PRC government exercises significant control over China’s economic growth by controlling the allocation of resources and payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and giving preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 11 In late 2003, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as raising bank reserves against deposit rates and placing additional limitation on the ability of commercial banks to make loans and raise interest rates, in an attempt to slow down specific segments of China’s economy that the government believed to be overheating. In 2009, however, in response to the world economic crisis, the PRC government cut interest rates and announced a stimulus plan in an attempt to help sustain growth. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect Geos’ liquidity, access to capital, financial results as well as our ability to operate our business. Fluctuation in the value of the Chinese Yuan (Reniminbi or RMB) may have a material effect on the value of your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Substantially all of D Mobile’s revenues and cost are denominated in the RMB, and a significant portion of D Mobile’s financial assets are also denominated in the RMB. The PRC recently adopted a floating rate with respect to the value of Renminbi against foreign currencies. This floating exchange rate could materially, and potentially adversely, affect D Mobile’s cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and could also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes. But it is not possible to predict whether the net effects of this floating rate, or any resulting appreciation of the RMB, would be positive or negative for our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect Geos. Geos conducts its business operations in China primarily through its D Mobile subsidiary which operates under the Duo Guo brand. Geos’ operations in China are governed by the PRC laws and regulations. Geos’ operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to wholly owned foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is principally based on statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but typically have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions (and the non binding nature of such decisions), the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations raise uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part of the government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have retroactive effect. As a result, Geos may not be aware of its violation of these policies and rules until after a violation occurs. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention. Contract drafting, interpretation and enforcement in China involve significant uncertainty. Geos, through D Mobile, is a party to numerous contracts governed by the PRC law, many of which are material to Geos’ business. Compared to contracts in the United States, contracts governed by the PRC law tend to contain less detail and are not as comprehensive in defining contracting parties’ rights and obligations. As a result, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China are not as developed as in the United States, and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Therefore, Geos may be subject to disputes under its material contracts, and if such disputes arise, Geos cannot assure you that it will prevail. Due to the materially of certain contracts to Geos’ business, any disputes involving such contracts, even without merit, may materially and adversely affect Geos’ reputation and business. Changes in PRC laws and regulations on labor and employee benefits may adversely affect Geos’ business and results of operations. As a result of the D Mobile acquisition, Geos will be conducting a significant portion of its business in China, which will be subject to PRC laws and regulations on labor and employee benefits. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented policies to strengthen the protection of employees and obligate employers to provide more benefits to their employees. In addition, an employment contract law came into effect in China on January 1, 2009 and its implementation regulation came into effect on September 18, 2009. The PRC employment contract law and related legislation required more benefits to be provided to employees, such as an increase in pay or compensation for termination of employment contracts. As a result, employers incurred higher labor cost. If additional employment and labor laws are brought to law, additional labor cost may be incurred and could have an adverse impact on Geos’ business and results of operations. 12 Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 5.9% and as low as -0.8%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our company. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties, and make most of our sales in China. The PRC also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors of our Company, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or Chinese anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold the Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. RISK RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY CONCERNS Our ability to do business depends, in part, on our ability to license certain technology from third parties. We rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and there can be no assurance that these third party technology licenses will be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. If we cannot license the technology we need on acceptable commercial terms, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Products and services like the ones we offer change rapidly and therefore, we must continually improve them. However, our need to invest in research and development may prevent us from ever being profitable. Products and services like the ones we offer are continually upgraded in an effort to make them work faster, function more easily for the user and provide more options. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. If we fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, then our products could become less attractive to potential customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. However, any investment in research and development and technological innovation will cause our operating costs to increase. This could prevent us from ever achieving profitability. We have developed our underlying software and we try to protect it from being used by others in our industry. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on copyright, trade secret and patent laws to protect our content and proprietary technologies and information, including the software that underlies our products and services. Additionally, we have taken steps that we believe will be adequate to establish, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that such laws and steps will provide sufficient protection to our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain rights to use our products or technologies. 13 We have six issued patents. In addition, we have 13 pending patent applications related to embedded software technology and methods of use. There can be no assurance that these pending patents will be issued, or what the scope of the allowed claims will be if issued. Even if the balance of patents pending are issued, the limited legal protection afforded by patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights to the intellectual property covered by these patents. Furthermore, the laws of many foreign countries in which we do business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Although we have implemented and will continue to implement protective measures in those countries, these efforts may also not be successful. Additionally, even if our domestic and international efforts are successful, our competitors may independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially similar or superior to our technologies. If our products contain defects, then our sales would be likely to suffer, and we may even be exposed to legal claims. Defects in our products could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Our business strategy calls for the development of new products and product enhancements which may from time to time contain defects or result in failures that we did not detect or anticipate when introducing such products or enhancements to the market. In addition, the markets in which our products are used are characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations and by errors, failures and bugs in third-party platforms that can impede proper operation of our products. Despite product testing, defects may still be discovered in some new products or enhancements after the products or enhancements are delivered to customers. The occurrence of these defects could result in product returns, adverse publicity, loss of or delays in market acceptance of our products, delays or cessation of service to our customers or legal claims by customers against us. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Doing business over the Internet may become subject to governmental regulation. If these regulations substantially increase the cost of doing business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are not currently subject to direct federal, state, or local regulation, and laws or regulations applicable to access to or commerce on the Internet, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and mobile networks for the delivery of all forms of digital content, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet and mobile networks covering issues such as user privacy, “indecent” materials, freedom of expression, pricing content and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. The adoption of any such laws or regulations might also decrease the rate of growth of Internet and mobile network use, which in turn could decrease the demand for our products and services or increase the cost of doing business or in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business faces security risks. Our failure to adequately address these risks could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our content delivery systems. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against the threat of such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Consumer concern over Internet security has been, and could continue to be, a barrier to commercial activities requiring consumers to send their credit card information over the Internet. Computer viruses, break-ins, or other security problems could lead to misappropriation of proprietary information and interruptions, delays, or cessation in service to our customers. Moreover, until more comprehensive security technologies are developed, the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the Internet as a merchandising medium. Our failure to adequately address these risks could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 14 We may become subject to litigation. We may be subject to claims involving how we conduct our business or the market for or issuance of the Common Stock or other securities. Any such claims against the Company may affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Such claims, including those without merit, could require us to pay damages or settlement amounts and would require a substantial amount of time and attention from our senior management as well as considerable legal expenses. Although we do not anticipate that our activities would warrant such claims, there can be no assurances that such claims will not be made. We depend on third-party vendors for key Internet operations including broadband connectivity, termination capability and different operating systems. The loss of any of our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our relationships with third party vendors of Internet development tools and technologies including providers of switches, network termination and operational and billing specialized operations. There can be no assurance that the necessary cooperation from third parties will be available on acceptable commercial terms or at all. Although there are a number of providers of these services, if we are unable to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with such third parties on acceptable commercial terms, or if our competitors are better able to leverage such relationships, then our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on their internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, on Form 10-K. We are subject to this requirement, and a report of our management is included under Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to remediate existing material weaknesses to comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby, and if we identify additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remedy in a timely manner, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 