ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution our readers that the following important factors, among others, could cause the actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this report and from time to time in news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications, as well as verbal forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of the Company. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements may include matters such as future economic performance, restaurant openings or closings, operating margins, the availability of acceptable real estate locations, the sufficiency of our cash balances and cash generated from operating and financing activities for our future liquidity and capital resource needs, and other matters, and are generally accompanied by words such as: believes, anticipates, plans, intends, estimates, predicts, targets, expects, contemplates and similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. An expanded discussion of some of these risk factors follows. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Our Industry General economic conditions have affected, and could continue to affect, discretionary consumer spending, particularly spending for meals prepared away from home. International, national and local economic conditions, including credit and mortgage markets, energy costs, lay-offs, foreclosure rates, bankruptcies, and similar adverse economic news and factors affect discretionary consumer spending. These factors could reduce consumers’ discretionary spending which in turn could reduce our guest traffic or average check. In 2007 and 2008, restaurants industry-wide were adversely affected as a result of reduced consumer spending due to rising fuel and energy costs, lay-offs and general economic conditions. The conditions experienced recently also include reduced consumer confidence, on-going concerns about down-sizing and lay-offs, the housing market, concerns over the stability of financial institutions, and increased health care and energy costs. Adverse changes in consumer discretionary spending, which could be affected by many different factors which are out of our control, including those listed above, could harm our business prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing economic and other conditions. 9 Table of Contents The economic turmoil that has arisen in the credit markets and in the housing markets as well as job losses throughout various sectors of the economy during and following fiscal 2008 may continue to suppress discretionary spending and other consumer purchasing habits and, as a result, adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to protect food supplies and adhere to food safety standards could result in food-borne illnesses. Food safety and reputation for quality is the most significant risk to any company that operates in the restaurant industry. Food safety is the focus of increased government regulatory initiatives at the local, state and federal levels. Failure to protect our food supply or enforce food safety policies, such as proper food temperatures and adherence to shelf life dates, could result in food-borne illnesses and/or injuries to our guests. Also, our reputation of providing high quality food is an important factor in choosing our restaurants. Instances of food borne illness, including listeriosis, salmonella and e-coli, whether or not traced to our restaurants, could reduce demand for our menu offerings. If any of our guests become ill from consuming our products, the affected restaurants may be forced to close. An instance of food contamination originating from one of our restaurants, our commissaries or suppliers, or our manufacturing plant could have far-reaching effects, as the contamination, or the perception of contamination could affect substantially all of our restaurants. In addition, publicity related to either product contamination or recalls may cause our guests to cease frequenting our restaurants based on fear of such illnesses. Volatile commodity prices would adversely affect our gross profit. Global demand for commodities such as wheat has resulted, and could in the future result, in higher prices for flour which would increase our costs. The prices of our main ingredients are directly associated with the changing weather conditions as well as economic factors such as supply and demand of certain commodities within the United States and other countries. Our ability to forecast and manage our commodities could significantly affect our gross margins. Any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our products, such as wheat, could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, in the event of destruction of products such as tomatoes or peppers or massive culling of specific animals such as chickens or turkeys to prevent the spread of disease, the supply and availability of ingredients may become limited. This could dramatically increase the price of certain menu items which could decrease sales of those items or could force us to eliminate those items from our menus entirely. All of these factors could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial results. We may not be successful in implementing any or all of the initiatives of our business strategy. Our success depends in part on our ability to understand and satisfy the needs of our guests, franchisees and licensees. Our business strategy consists of several initiatives: • expand sales at our existing company-owned restaurants; • open new company-owned restaurants; and • open new franchise and license restaurants. Our ability to achieve any or all of these initiatives is uncertain. Our success in expanding sales at company-owned restaurants through various sub-initiatives including: promoting and offering value to our customers through discounts, coupons and new menu offerings and broadening our offerings across multiple dayparts, improving our ordering and production systems, expanding our catering program and upgrading our restaurants is dependent in part on our ability to offer value to consumers, attract new customers, predict and satisfy consumer preferences and as mentioned above, consumer’s ability to respond positively in a troublesome economic 10 Table of Contents environment. Our success in growing our business through opening new company-owned restaurants is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to: find suitable locations, reach acceptable lease terms, have adequate capital, find acceptable contractors, obtain licenses and permits, recruit and train appropriate staff and properly manage the new restaurant. Our success in opening new franchise and license restaurants is dependent upon, among other factors, our ability to: attract quality businesses to invest in our core brands, maintain the effectiveness of our franchise disclosure documents in target states, offer restaurant solutions for a variety of location types and the ability of our franchisees and licensees to: find suitable locations, reach acceptable lease terms, have adequate capital, secure reasonable financing, find available contractors, obtain licenses and permits, locate and train staff appropriately and properly manage the new restaurants. If we are not successful in implementing any or all of the initiatives of our business strategy, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Competition in the restaurant industry is intense. Our industry is highly competitive and there are many well-established competitors. While we operate in the fast-casual segment of the restaurant industry, we also consider restaurants in the fast-food and full-service segments to be our competitors. Several fast-casual and fast-food chains are focusing more on breakfast offerings and expanding their coffee offerings. This could further increase competition in the breakfast daypart. In addition to current competitors, one or more new major competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources could enter the market at any time and compete directly against us. Also, in virtually every major metropolitan area in which we operate or expect to enter, local or regional competitors already exist. This may make it more difficult to attract and retain guests. Numerous factors including changes in consumer tastes and preferences often affect restaurants. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our type of cuisine and/or the fast-casual style could have a material effect on our results of operations. Dietary trends, such as the consumption of food low in carbohydrate content have, in the past, and may, in the future, negatively impact our sales. Changes in our guests’ spending habits and preferences could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Our results will depend on our ability to respond to changing consumer preferences and tastes. In addition, recent local and state regulations mandating prominent disclosure of nutritional and calorie information may result in reduced demand for some of our products which could be viewed as containing too much fat or too many calories. We occupy our company-owned restaurants under long-term non-cancelable leases, and we may be unable to renew leases at the end of their lease periods or obtain new leases on acceptable terms. We do not own any real property, and all of our company-owned restaurants are located in leased premises. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have terms ranging from five to ten years with two three- to five-year renewal options. We believe leases that we enter into in the future likely will also be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. Most of our leases provide that the landlord may increase the rent over the term of the lease, and require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. If we close a restaurant, we generally remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In some instances, we may be unable to close an underperforming restaurant due to continuous operation clauses in our lease agreements. Our obligation to continue making rental payments in respect of leases for closed or underperforming restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to renew our restaurant leases, we may be forced to close or relocate a restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, closing a restaurant, even during the time of relocation, will reduce the sales that the restaurant would have contributed to our revenues. Additionally, the revenue and profit, if any, generated at a relocated restaurant may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the existing restaurant. We also face competition from both restaurants and other retailers for suitable sites for new restaurants. 11 Table of Contents Our operations may be negatively impacted by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters may at times affect regions in which our company-owned, franchised and licensed restaurants are located, regions that produce raw ingredients for our restaurants, or locations of our distribution network. If adverse weather conditions or natural disasters such as fires and hurricanes affect our restaurants, we could experience closures, repair and restoration costs, food spoilage, and other significant reopening costs as well as increased food costs and delayed supply shipments, any of which would adversely affect our business. In addition, if adverse weather or natural disasters affect our distribution network, we could experience shortages or delayed shipments at our restaurants, which could adversely affect them. Additionally, during periods of extreme temperatures (either hot or cold) or precipitation, many individuals choose to stay inside. This impacts transaction counts in our restaurants and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The effects of hurricanes, fires, snowstorms, freezes and other adverse weather conditions are likely to affect supply of and costs for raw ingredients and natural resources, near-term construction costs for our new restaurants as well as sales in our restaurants going forward. If we are not able to anticipate or react to changing costs of food and other raw materials by adjusting our purchasing practices or menu prices, our operating margins would likely deteriorate. We have single suppliers for most of our key products, and the failure of any of these suppliers to perform could harm our business. We currently purchase our raw materials from various suppliers; however, we have only one supplier for most of our key products. We purchase all of our cream cheese from a single source. Also, we purchase a majority of our frozen bagel dough from a single supplier, who utilizes our proprietary processes and on whom we are dependent in the short-term. All of our remaining frozen bagel dough is produced at our dough manufacturing facility in Whittier, California. Although to date we have not experienced significant difficulties with our suppliers, our reliance on a single supplier for most of our key ingredients subjects us to a number of risks, including possible delays or interruption in supplies, diminished control over quality and a potential lack of adequate raw material capacity. Any disruption in the supply or degradation in the quality of the materials provided by our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any such disruptions in supply or degradations in quality could have a long-term detrimental impact on our efforts to maintain a strong brand identity and a loyal consumer base. Disruptions or supply issues could adversely affect our business and reputation. We depend on our network of independent regional distributors to distribute frozen bagel dough and other products and materials to our company-owned, franchised and licensed restaurants. Any failure by one or more of our distributors to perform as anticipated, or any disruption in any of our distribution relationships for any reason, would subject us to a number of risks, including inadequate products delivered to our restaurants, diminished control over quality of products delivered, and increased operating costs to prevent delays in deliveries. Any of these events could harm our relationships with our franchisees or licensees, or diminish the reputation of our menu offerings or our brands in the marketplace. In addition, a negative change in the volume of products ordered from our distributors by our company-owned, franchised and/or licensed restaurants could increase our distribution costs. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, increased costs and distribution issues related to fuel and utilities could also materially impact our business and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Increasing labor costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent upon an available labor pool of associates, many of whom are hourly employees whose wages may be affected by increases in the federal, state or municipal “living wage” rates. Numerous increases have been made on federal, state and local levels to increase minimum wage levels. Increases in the federal and state minimum hourly wage rates in some of the states in which we operate became effective throughout 2008 and additional increases will become effective throughout 2009. Increases in the minimum wage may create pressure to increase the pay scale for our associates, which would increase our labor costs and those of our franchisees and licensees. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase labor costs. Changes in the labor laws or reclassifications of associates from management to hourly employees could affect our labor cost. An increase in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our income from operations and decrease our profitability and cash flows if we are unable to recover these increases by raising the prices we charge our guests. We may not be able to comply with certain debt covenants or generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our substantial amount of debt or redeem our mandatorily redeemable preferred stock when due. Our current debt agreements contain certain covenants, which, among others, include certain financial covenants such as limitations on capital expenditures, maintenance of the business, use of proceeds from sales of assets and consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as defined in the agreements. The covenants also preclude the declaration and payment of dividends or other distributions to holders of our common stock. We are subject to multiple economic, financial, competitive, legal and other risks that are beyond our control and could harm our future financial results. Any adverse effect on our business or financial results could affect our ability to maintain compliance with our debt covenants, and any failure by us to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default. If we were to default under our covenants and such default were not cured or waived, our indebtedness could become immediately due and payable, which could render us insolvent. We have a considerable amount of debt and are substantially leveraged. In addition, we may, subject to certain restrictions, incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our high level of debt, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business or the economy generally; • increase our vulnerability to volatility in interest rates; and • limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures from our less leveraged competitors. Economic, financial, competitive, legislative and other factors beyond our control may affect our ability to generate cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund necessary working capital. A significant reduction in operating cash flow would likely increase the need for alternative sources of liquidity. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our debt, we will have to pursue one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, refinancing our debt on terms that are not favorable to us, selling assets or issuing additional equity securities. We may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms, if at all, and even if accomplished, they may not yield sufficient funds to service our debt. We have $57.0 million of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock due June 30, 2009. Given the current state of the credit markets as well as the financial condition of some of our lenders, our ability to borrow 13 Table of Contents additional funds on our First Lien credit facility could be unlikely. Failure to redeem all of the preferred stock on June 30, 2009 will result in us paying additional redemption price to redeem the remaining shares in the future. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation in connection with our operations. We are from time to time the subject of complaints or litigation from our consumers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In addition, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination, or labor code violations may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our future performance. For example, we recently settled two class actions in California as described in Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report. There is also a risk of litigation from our franchisees and licensees. We have been subject to a variety of these and other claims from time to time and a significant increase in the number of these claims or the number that are successful could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. A regional or global health pandemic could severely affect our business. A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. If a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. We have positioned ourselves as a “neighborhood atmosphere” between home and work where people can gather for human connection and high quality food. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or global pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of products and materials in our supply chain and causing staff shortages in our restaurants. The impact of a health pandemic might be disproportionately greater on us than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people in a neighborhood atmosphere. Our franchisees and licensees may not help us develop our business as we expect, or could actually harm our business. We rely in part on our franchisees and licensees and the manner in which they operate their restaurants to develop and promote our business. Although we have developed criteria to evaluate and screen prospective candidates, the candidates may not have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to operate successful restaurants in their respective areas. In addition, franchisees and licensees are subject to business risks similar to what we face such as competition, consumer acceptance, fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw ingredients, and increasing labor costs. The failure of franchisees and licensees to operate successfully could have a material adverse effect on us, our reputation, our ability to collect royalties, our brands and our ability to attract prospective candidates. Potential franchisees and licensees may have difficulty obtaining proper financing as a result of the downturn in the credit markets. As we offer and grant franchises for our Einstein Bros. brand, our reliance on our franchisees is expected to increase in proportion to growth of the franchisee base. With respect to franchising our Einstein Bros. brand, we may not be able to identify franchisees that meet our criteria, or to enter into franchise area development agreements with prospective franchisee candidates that we identify. As a result, our franchise program for the Einstein Bros. brand may not grow at the rate we currently expect, or at all. 14 Table of Contents Our restaurants and products are subject to numerous and changing government regulations. Failure to comply could negatively affect our sales, increase our costs or result in fines or other penalties against us. Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and regulation by the health, sanitation, safety, labor, building and fire agencies of the respective states, counties, cities and municipalities in which it is located. A failure to comply with one or more regulations could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the closing of facilities for an indeterminate period of time, or third party litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. Recently, many government bodies have begun to legislate or regulate high-fat and high sodium foods and disclosure of nutritional information as a way of combating concerns about obesity and health. In addition to the phase-out of artificial trans-fats, public interest groups have focused attention on the marketing of high-fat and high-sodium foods to children in a stated effort to combat childhood obesity. Some cities and states have recently adopted or are considering regulations requiring disclosure of nutritional facts, including calorie information, on menus and/or menu boards. Additional cities or states may propose or adopt similar regulations. The cost of complying with these regulations could increase our expenses and the possible negative publicity arising from such legislative initiatives could reduce our future sales. Our franchising operations are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission. We must also comply with state franchising laws and a wide range of other state and local rules and regulations applicable to our business. The failure to comply with federal, state and local rules and regulations would have an adverse effect on us. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in such property. Such liability may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Although we are not aware of any environmental conditions that require remediation by us under federal, state or local law at our properties, we have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of our properties or operations. We may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our properties, and any such liabilities that are identified in the future may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may not be able to protect our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights. We believe our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights. However, the actions we take may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products and concepts by others, to prevent various challenges to our registrations or applications or denials of applications for the registration of trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights in the U.S. or other countries, or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary marks. In addition, others may assert rights in our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitation. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards to offset future taxable income. A corporation generally undergoes an “ownership change” when the stock ownership percentage (by value) of its “5 percent stockholders” increases by more than 50 percentage points over any three-year testing period. As of December 30, 2008, our NOL carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes were approximately $135.4 million. As a result of prior ownership changes, approximately $29.8 million of our NOL carryforwards 15 Table of Contents are subject to an annual usage limitation of $2.5 million. Due to transactions involving the sale or other transfer of our stock from the date of our last ownership change through the date of the secondary public offering of our common stock, and changes in the value of our stock during that period, such offering may result in an additional ownership change for purposes of Section 382 or will significantly increase the likelihood that we will undergo an additional ownership change in the future (which could occur as a result of transactions involving our stock that are outside of our control). In either event, the occurrence of an additional ownership change would limit our ability to utilize the approximately $105.6 million of our NOL carryforwards that are not currently subject to limitation, and could further limit our ability to utilize our remaining NOL carryforwards and possibly other tax attributes. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income could cause us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we otherwise would if such limitations were not in effect, and could cause such NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes to us and adversely affecting our future cash flow. We filed a request with the Internal Revenue Service to review our methodology for determining ownership changes in accordance with Internal Revenue Code Section 382 on December 30, 2008. In the event that our request is not accepted, approximately $40.5 million of NOL carryforwards will be at risk to expire prior to utilization. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes as well. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock We have a majority stockholder. Greenlight Capital, L.L.C. and its affiliates (“Greenlight”) beneficially own approximately 67% of our common stock as of December 30, 2008. As a result, Greenlight has sufficient voting power, without the vote of any other stockholders, to determine what matters will be submitted for approval by our stockholders to elect all of the members of our board of directors, and to determine whether a change in control of our company occurs. Greenlight’s interests on matters submitted to stockholders may be different from those of other stockholders. Greenlight has voted its shares to elect our current board of directors, and the chairman of our board of directors is a current employee of Greenlight. We have listed our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. NASDAQ rules require us to have an audit committee consisting entirely of independent directors. However, under NASDAQ rules, if a single stockholder holds more than 50% of the voting power of a listed company, that company is considered a controlled company, and is exempt from several other corporate governance rules, including the requirement that companies have a majority of independent directors and independent director involvement in the selection of director nominees and in the determination of executive compensation. As a result, our stockholders do not have, and may never have, the protections that these rules are intended to provide. The Company currently has a majority of independent directors on the board of directors. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. If a substantial number of shares of our common stock are sold in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. The perception among investors that these sales will occur could also produce this effect. Our majority stockholder, Greenlight, beneficially owns approximately 67% of our common stock as of December 30, 2008 and sales by Greenlight or a perception that Greenlight will sell could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 