ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Ownership of our common stock involves certain risks. Holders of our common stock and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this document, including our historical financial statements and related notes included herein. The following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly, and you may lose part or all of your investment. The risk and uncertainties below are all those that we have identified as material, but may not be the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, including overall economic and industry conditions. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Our Industry General economic conditions, including continuing effects from the recent recession, have affected, and could continue to affect, discretionary consumer spending, particularly spending for meals prepared away from home. We, together with the rest of the restaurant industry, depend upon consumer discretionary spending. The recent recession and slow recovery, coupled with lay-offs, high unemployment rates, foreclosures, bankruptcies, falling home prices and other economic impacts, has affected consumers’ ability and willingness to spend discretionary dollars. In recent years, restaurants industry-wide have been adversely affected as a result of reduced consumer spending due to these and other factors. If the weak economy continues for a prolonged period of time or worsens, it could further reduce discretionary consumer spending, cause consumers to trade down to lower priced products within our restaurants, and/or shift to competitors with lower priced products, which in turn could reduce our guest traffic or average check. If negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. Adverse changes in consumer discretionary spending could be affected by many different factors that are out of our control, including international, national and local economic conditions, any of which could harm our business prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing economic and other conditions. Approximately 42% of our restaurants are concentrated in five main states and, as a result, we are sensitive to economic and other trends and developments in these states. As of December 31, 2013, 358 of our restaurants were located in five states (California, Colorado, Florida, Illinois and Texas). As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in these states, including their labor markets. Several of these markets have been particularly affected by the economic downturn and the timing and strength of any economic recovery is uncertain. Our geographic concentration increases vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and may have a disproportionate effect on our overall results of operations as compared to some of our competitors that may have less restaurant concentration. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in these states could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local labor strikes, energy shortages or increases in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires, or other natural disasters. Unsuccessful implementation of any or all of the initiatives of our business strategy, including opening new restaurants, could negatively impact our operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to understand and satisfy the needs of our guests, franchisees and licensees. Our key strategies are to: • drive comparable store sales growth; • manage corporate margins; and • accelerate unit growth. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to achieve any or all of these initiatives is uncertain. Our success in expanding sales at company-owned restaurants through various sub-initiatives is dependent in part on our ability to offer value to consumers, attract new customers, predict and satisfy consumer preferences and our consumers’ ability to respond positively in a challenging economic environment. Our sub-initiatives may include: the promotion and offering of value to our customers through print or digital marketing, discounts, coupons, new menu offerings and the addition of targeted media to build awareness in certain markets, along with the continued broadening of our offerings across multiple dayparts; the improvement of our ordering and production systems; the expansion of our catering program; and the upgrade of our restaurants. Our success in growing our business through opening new company-owned restaurants is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to: find suitable locations, reach acceptable lease terms, have adequate capital, find acceptable contractors, obtain licenses and permits, manage construction and development costs, recruit and train appropriate staff and properly manage the new restaurant. Our success in opening new franchise and license restaurants is dependent upon, among other factors, our ability to: attract quality businesses with the interest and desire to invest/purchase in our core brands, maintain the effectiveness of our franchise disclosure documents in target states, offer restaurant solutions for a variety of location types and the ability of our franchisees and licensees to: find suitable locations, reach acceptable lease terms, have adequate capital, secure reasonable financing, find available contractors, obtain licenses and permits, manage construction and development costs, locate and train staff appropriately and properly manage the new restaurants. Our success in expanding our franchise business is dependent upon signing additional development agreements along with the refranchising our company-owned restaurants. If we are not successful in implementing any or all of the initiatives of our business strategy, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our franchisees and licensees may not help us develop our business as we expect, or could take actions that harm our business. We rely in part on our franchisees and licensees and the manner in which they operate their restaurants to develop and promote our business. Franchisees and licensees are independent operators and are not our employees. As we offer and grant franchises for our Einstein Bros. and Manhattan Bagel brands, our reliance on our franchisees is expected to increase in proportion to growth of the franchisee base. With respect to franchising our Einstein Bros. brand, we may not be able to identify franchisees that meet our criteria, or to enter into franchise area development agreements with prospective franchisee candidates that we identify. As a result, our franchise program for the Einstein Bros. brand may not grow at the rate we currently expect, or at all. Although we have developed criteria to evaluate and screen prospective candidates, we are limited in the amount of control we can exercise over our franchisees and licensees, and the quality of franchised and licensed restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Franchisees and licensees may not have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to operate successful restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements and may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Poor restaurant operations may affect each restaurant’s sales. Our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees and licensees, may suffer materially and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our franchisees do not operate successfully. In addition, franchisees and licensees are subject to business risks similar to those we face such as competition; consumer acceptance; fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw ingredients; increasing labor costs; and difficultly obtaining proper financing as a result of the downturn in the credit markets. The failure of franchisees and licensees to meet their development obligations or to operate successfully could have a material adverse effect on us, our reputation, our ability to collect royalties, our brands and our ability to attract prospective candidates. Competition in the restaurant industry is intense. Our industry is highly competitive and there are many well-established competitors, some of which have substantially greater resources than we do. While we operate in the fast-casual segment of the restaurant industry, 11 Table of Contents we also consider restaurants in the fast-food and full-service segments to be competitors. We believe that several of our competitors are focusing more on breakfast offerings and expanding their premium coffee and specialty beverage offerings. This could further increase competition in the breakfast daypart. In addition to current competitors, one or more new major competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources could enter the market at any time and compete directly against us. Also, in virtually every major metropolitan area in which we operate or expect to enter, local or regional competitors already exist. This may make it more difficult to attract and retain guests or find potential franchisees and licensees. Our success depends in large part on our continued ability to convince customers that food made with higher-quality ingredients, including our fresh-baked bagels, premium coffee, specialty beverages and made-to-order sandwiches, is worth the prices at our restaurants relative to lower prices offered by some of our competitors. Numerous factors including changes in consumer tastes and preferences often affect restaurants. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our menu items and/or the fast-casual style could have a material effect on our results of operations. Dietary trends, such as the consumption of food low in carbohydrate content have, in the past, and may, in the future, negatively impact our sales. Changes in our guests’ spending habits and preferences could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Our results will depend on our ability to respond to changing consumer preferences and tastes. In addition, recent local and state regulations mandating prominent disclosure of nutritional and calorie information may result in reduced demand for some of our products which could be viewed as containing too much fat or too many calories. We have single suppliers and vendors for many of our key products and the failure of any of these suppliers or vendors to perform could harm our business. We currently purchase our raw materials from various suppliers; and in some cases, we have selected a single supplier for a key product to take advantage of economies of scale. We have elected to purchase all of our cream cheese, sliced cheese and coffee products from single suppliers. Our frozen bagel dough is produced at our manufacturing facility in Whittier, California or is purchased from one supplier who uses our proprietary processes. Although to date we have not experienced significant difficulties with our suppliers, our choice to purchase most of our key ingredients from these suppliers subjects us to a number of risks, including possible delays or interruption in supplies, diminished control over quality and a potential lack of adequate raw material capacity. A significant disruption in the supply or degradation in the quality of the materials provided by our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition until we select another supplier. Distribution disruptions or other distribution issues could adversely affect our business and reputation. We depend on our network of independent regional distributors to distribute frozen bagel dough, materials and other products to our company-owned, franchised and licensed restaurants. Any failure by one or more of our distributors to perform as anticipated, or any disruption in any of our distribution relationships for any reason, would subject us to a number of risks, including inadequate products delivered to our restaurants, diminished control over quality of products delivered, and increased operating costs to prevent delays in deliveries. Any of these events could harm our relationships with our franchisees or licensees, or diminish the reputation of our menu offerings or our brands in the marketplace. In addition, a negative change in the volume of products ordered from our distributors by our company-owned, franchised and licensed restaurants could increase our distribution costs. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased costs and distribution issues related to fuel and utilities could also materially impact our business and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Increasing labor costs or labor discord could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We depend upon an available labor pool of associates, many of whom are hourly employees whose wages may be affected by increases in the federal, state or municipal “living wage” rates. Numerous increases have been made on federal, state and local levels to increase minimum wage levels. Many states have increased their minimum hourly wage rate above that of the federal rate with adjustments to many state rates effective in 2013 and 2014. Increases in the minimum wage may create pressure to increase the pay scale for our associates, which would increase our labor costs and those of our franchisees and licensees. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase labor costs. Changes in the labor laws, reclassifications of associates from management to hourly employees, or the potential impact of union organizing efforts could affect our labor cost. An increase in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our income from operations and decrease our profitability and cash flows if we are unable to recover these increases by raising the prices we charge our guests. In March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation was passed and signed into law. Among other things, the health care reform legislation includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions, eliminates annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health care reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health care reform legislation on our business over the coming years, but our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially affected. Increases in commodity prices would adversely affect our results of operations. Global demand for commodities such as wheat, coffee and dairy products has resulted, and could in the future result, in higher prices which would increase our costs. The prices of our main ingredients are directly associated with the changing weather conditions as well as economic factors such as supply and demand of certain commodities within the United States and other countries. Our ability to forecast and manage our commodities could significantly affect our gross margins. Any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our products could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, in the event of the destruction of products such as tomatoes, peppers or massive culling of specific animals such as salmon, chickens or turkeys to prevent the spread of disease, the supply and availability of ingredients may become limited. This could dramatically increase the price of certain menu items which could decrease sales of those items or could force us to eliminate those items from our menus entirely. All of these factors could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial results. Failure to protect food supplies and adhere to food safety standards could result in food-borne illnesses and adversely affect our business. We believe that food safety and reputation for quality is of significant importance to any company that, like us, operates in the restaurant industry. Food safety, including the prevention of tampering or contamination, is a focus of increased government regulatory initiatives at the local, state and federal levels. Failure to protect our food supply or enforce food safety policies, such as proper food temperatures and adherence to shelf life dates, could result in food-borne illnesses and/or injuries to our guests. Also, our reputation of providing high quality food is an important factor in our guests choosing our restaurants. Whether or not traced to our restaurants or those of our competitors, instances of food borne illness or other food safety issues could reduce demand for certain or all of our menu offerings. If any of our guests become ill from consuming our products, the affected restaurants may be forced to close and we may be subject to legal liability. An instance of food contamination originating from one of our restaurants, our suppliers, or our manufacturing 13 Table of Contents plant could have far-reaching effects, as the contamination, or the perception of contamination could affect substantially all of our restaurants. Publicity related to either product contamination or recalls may also injure our brand and may affect the selection of our restaurants by guests, franchisees and licensees based on fear of such illnesses. In addition, the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees and licensees. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation in connection with our operations. We are from time to time the subject of complaints or litigation from our consumers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially negatively affect us and our brand, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we incur any liability. In addition, third party and employee claims against us based on, among other things, alleged discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination, or labor code violations may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our future performance. There is also a risk of litigation from our franchisees and licensees. We have been subject to a variety of these and other claims from time to time in the past and a significant increase in the number of these claims or the number that are successful could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. We occupy our company-owned restaurants under long-term non-cancelable leases, and we may be unable to renew leases at the end of their lease periods or obtain new leases on acceptable terms. We do not own any real property, and all of our company-owned restaurants are located in leased premises. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have terms ranging from five to ten years with two three- to five-year renewal options. We believe leases that we enter into in the future will also likely be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. Most of our leases provide that the landlord may increase the rent over the term of the lease, and require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. If we close a restaurant, we generally remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In some instances, we may be unable to close an underperforming restaurant due to continuous operation clauses in our lease agreements. Our obligation to continue making rental payments in respect of leases for closed or underperforming restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to renew our restaurant leases, we may be forced to close or relocate a restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, closing a restaurant, even during the time of relocation, will reduce the sales that the restaurant would have contributed to our revenues. Additionally, the revenue and profit, if any, generated at a relocated restaurant may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the prior location. We also face competition from both restaurants and other retailers for suitable sites for new restaurants. Our operations may be negatively impacted by seasonality, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or acts of terror. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, as well as adverse weather conditions and natural disasters that may at times affect regions in which our company-owned, franchised and licensed restaurants are located, regions that produce raw ingredients for our restaurants, or locations of our distribution network. As a result of the seasonality of our business and our industry, our quarterly results have varied in the past, and we believe that our quarterly operating results will vary in the future. In addition, if adverse weather conditions or natural disasters such as fires and hurricanes affect our restaurants, we could experience closures, repair and restoration costs, food spoilage, and other significant reopening costs as well as increased food costs and delayed supply shipments, any of which would adversely affect our business. We could also experience shortages or delayed shipments at our restaurants if adverse weather or natural disasters affect our distribution network, which could adversely affect our restaurants and our business as a whole. Additionally, during periods of extreme 14 Table of Contents temperatures (either hot or cold) or precipitation, many individuals choose to stay indoors. This impacts transaction counts in our restaurants and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The effects of hurricanes, fires, snowstorms, freezes and other adverse weather conditions are likely to affect the supply of and costs for raw ingredients and natural resources, near-term construction costs for our new restaurants and in our restaurants going forward. If we do not anticipate or react to changing costs of food and other raw materials by adjusting our purchasing practices or menu prices, our operating margins would likely deteriorate. The impact on our business from terrorism (including cyber-terrorism or efforts to tamper with food supplies) could have an adverse impact on our brand and results of operations. Any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management of supply chain, point-of-sale (“POS”) processing in our restaurants, and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of products depends on the reliability and capacity of these systems. Despite our implementation of security measures, all of our technology systems are vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of our operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem. Credit and debit card data loss, litigation and/or liability could significantly harm our reputation and adversely impact our business. In connection with credit and debit card sales, we transmit confidential credit and debit card information securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Several companies in a variety of industries recently have reported security breaches during which credit/debit card or other personal identifying information has been compromised. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. Furthermore, as a result of legislative and regulatory rules, we may be required to notify the owners of the information of any data breaches, which could harm our reputation and financial results, as well as subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities. Our restaurants and products are subject to numerous and changing government regulations. Failure to comply with or substantial changes in government regulations could negatively affect our sales, increase our costs or result in fines or other penalties against us. Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and regulation by the health, sanitation, safety, labor, building and fire agencies of the respective states, counties, cities and municipalities in which it is located. A failure to comply with one or more regulations could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the closing of facilities for an indeterminate period of time, or third party litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Recently, many government bodies have begun to legislate or regulate high-fat and high sodium foods and require disclosure of nutritional information as a way of combating concerns about obesity and health. In addition to the phase-out of artificial trans-fats, public interest groups have focused attention on the marketing of high-fat and high-sodium foods to children in a stated effort to combat childhood obesity. Some cities and states have recently adopted or are considering regulations requiring disclosure of nutritional facts, including calorie information, on menus and/or menu boards. Additional cities or states may propose or adopt similar regulations. The cost of complying with these regulations could increase our expenses and the possible negative publicity arising from such legislative initiatives could reduce our future sales. Our franchising operations are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission. We must also comply with state franchising laws and a wide range of other state and local rules and regulations applicable to our business. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules promulgated thereunder may impose new business or disclosure obligations on us. The failure to comply with or substantial changes in federal, state and local rules and regulations would have an adverse effect on us. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in such property. Such liability may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Although we are not aware of any environmental conditions that require remediation by us under federal, state or local law at our properties, we have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of our properties or operations. We may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our properties, and any such liabilities that are identified in the future may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Moreover, the adoption of new or more stringent environmental laws or regulations could result in a material liability to us and the current environmental condition of our leased properties could be harmed by third parties or by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of our leased properties. We may not be able to protect our brands, trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights. Our brands, which include our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights, are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our brands. However, the actions we take may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products and concepts by others, to prevent various challenges to our registrations or applications or denials of applications for the registration of trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights in the U.S. or other countries, or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary marks. In addition, others may assert rights in our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights or may assert that we are infringing rights they have in their trademarks, service marks, patents or other proprietary rights. A regional or global health pandemic could severely affect our business. A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. If a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. We have positioned ourselves as a “neighborhood atmosphere” between home and work where people can gather for human connection and high quality food. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or global pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of products and materials in our supply chain and causing staff shortages in our restaurants. The impact of a health pandemic might be disproportionately greater on us than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people in a neighborhood atmosphere. 16 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our restaurants. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. A loss of key employees or a significant shortage of high quality restaurant employees to maintain our current business and support our projected growth could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes would be limited if an ownership change occurs. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“§382”), a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards to offset future taxable income. A corporation generally undergoes an “ownership change” when the stock ownership percentage (by value) of its “5 percent stockholders” increases by more than 50 percentage points over any three-year testing period. Greenlight, our largest stockholder, reduced its beneficial ownership in us from 63% as of January 1, 2013 to 38% as of December 31, 2013. Due to transactions involving the sale or other transfer of our stock from the date of our last ownership change through the date of the latest secondary public offering of our common stock by Greenlight, and changes in the value of our stock during that period, any new offerings or transfers may result in an additional ownership change for purposes of §382 or significantly increase the likelihood that we will undergo an additional ownership change in the future (which could occur as a result of transactions involving our stock that are outside of our control). In such event, the occurrence of an additional ownership change would limit our ability to utilize approximately $75.1 million of our NOL carryforwards that are not currently subject to limitation, and could further limit our ability to utilize our remaining NOL carryforwards and possibly other tax attributes. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income could cause us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we otherwise would if such limitations were not in effect, and could cause such NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes to us and adversely affecting our future cash flow. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes as well. Failure of our internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our stock. Risk Factors Relating to Our Indebtedness We may not be able to comply with certain debt covenants or generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our debt or to pay dividends to our stockholders in the future. Our current credit facility contains certain covenants, including certain financial covenants such as limitations on capital expenditures, maintenance of the business, use of proceeds from sales of assets and consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as defined in the agreements. We are subject to multiple 17 Table of Contents economic, financial, competitive, legal and other risks that are beyond our control and could harm our future financial results. Any adverse effect on our business or financial results could affect our ability to maintain compliance with our debt covenants, and any failure by us to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default. If we were to default under our covenants and such default were not cured or waived, our indebtedness could become immediately due and payable, which could render us insolvent. We have $107.0 million in debt as of December 31, 2013. In addition, we may, subject to certain restrictions, incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our debt, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt service and other obligations under our indebtedness; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business or the economy generally; • increase our vulnerability to volatility in interest rates; and • limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures from our less leveraged competitors. Economic, financial, competitive, legislative and other factors beyond our control may affect our ability to generate cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, to fund necessary working capital or to pay dividends to our stockholders in the future. A significant reduction in operating cash flow would likely increase the need for alternative sources of liquidity. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our debt, we will have to pursue one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, refinancing our debt on terms that are not favorable to us, selling assets or issuing additional equity securities. We may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms, if at all, and even if accomplished, they may not yield sufficient funds to service our debt. A “change of control” of the Company under our Senior Credit Facility would require us to amend our current credit facility or obtain a waiver thereunder. Our credit agreement contains customary provisions regarding an event of default in the event of a “change in control” of the Company, which includes a person or group of related persons (other than Greenlight) acquiring beneficial ownership or voting control over 30% or more of our outstanding common stock. In the event of a transaction that resulted in another person or group of related persons acquiring such a position in our stock, we would be required to obtain such an amendment or waiver from our lenders to avoid an event of default thereunder. We are not aware of any pending or contemplated transaction as a result of which a person or group of related persons would acquire sufficient beneficial ownership or voting control of our common stock to trigger a “change in control” as defined in the Senior Credit Facility. There can be no assurance, however, that such a change of control will not occur in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 