ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution our readers that the following important factors, among others, could cause the actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this report and from time to time in news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications, as well as verbal forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of the company. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements may include matters such as future economic performance, restaurant openings or closings, operating margins, the availability of acceptable real estate locations, the sufficiency of our cash balances and cash generated from operating and financing activities for our future liquidity and capital resource needs, and other matters, and are generally accompanied by words such as: believes, anticipates, estimates, predicts, expects, and similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. An expanded discussion of some of these risk factors follows. 9 We may not be successful in implementing any or all of the initiatives of our business strategy. Our success depends in part on our ability to understand our customers’ needs. We believe successful deployment of our current business strategy will address customers’ needs and contribute to overall company growth. While we believe our brand refresh strategy will strengthen the performance of our Einstein Bros. brand, its success is dependent upon customer acceptance of new menu offerings and pricings, the look and feel of the restaurant, and the new service system and other factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the availability of capital and opportunities to make modifications to existing restaurants will be significant factors in the success of our business strategy. If we improperly perceive customers’ needs and/or are not successful in implementing any or all of the initiatives of our business strategy, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and economic conditions that could harm our financial results. Food service businesses are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, dietary trends, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. Factors such as traffic patterns, local demographics and the type, number and location of competing restaurants may adversely affect the performance of individual locations. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our type of cuisine and/or the quick casual style could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Dietary trends, such as the consumption of food low in carbohydrate content may negatively impact our sales. In addition, inflation and increased food and energy costs may harm the restaurant industry in general and our locations in particular. Adverse changes in any of these factors could reduce consumer traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, which could harm our business prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our continued success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and economic conditions. There is competition in the restaurant industry for personnel, real estate, advertising space, and customers, among other things. Our industry is highly competitive and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. In addition to current competitors, one or more new major competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources could enter the market at any time and compete directly against us. In addition, in virtually every major metropolitan area in which we operate or expect to enter, local or regional competitors already exist. This may make it more difficult to obtain real estate and advertising space, and to retain customers and personnel. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of our raw ingredients. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in economic and political conditions, weather and demand could adversely affect the cost of our ingredients. We have limited control over fluctuations in the price and quality of commodities, and we may not be able to pass through any cost increases to our customers. We are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh ingredients, thereby subjecting us to the risk of shortages or interruptions in supply. All of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial results. We heavily depend on our suppliers. We currently purchase our raw materials from various suppliers. We purchase a majority of our frozen bagel dough from Harlan Bakeries, Inc. (who utilizes our proprietary processes) and on which we are 10 dependent upon in the short-term. Additionally, we purchase all of our cream cheese from a single source. Though to date we have not experienced significant difficulties with our suppliers, our reliance on a limited number of suppliers subjects us to a number of risks, including possible delays or interruption in supplies, diminished control over quality and a potential lack of adequate raw material capacity. Any disruption in the supply or degradation in the quality of the materials provided by our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any such disruptions in supply or degradations in quality could have a long-term detrimental impact on our efforts to develop and maintain a strong brand identity and a loyal consumer base. We heavily depend on our distributors. We depend on our network of distributors to distribute frozen bagel dough and other products and materials to our locations. If any one or more of our distributors fails to perform as anticipated, or if there is any disruption in any of our distribution relationships for any reason, it subjects us to a number of risks, including inadequate products delivered to our company-owned, franchised and licensed locations, diminished control over quality of products delivered, and increased operating costs to prevent delays in deliveries. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During late 2005, we negotiated contract terms with a new distribution partner. We have experienced some transition issues at certain locations during 2006 but at this time, we do not believe this will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are currently working with this distributor to resolve these issues. Increasing labor costs could adversely affect our continued profitability. We are dependent upon an available labor pool of associates, many of whom are hourly employees whose wages may be affected by an increase in the federal or state minimum wage. Numerous proposals have been made on federal, state and local levels to increase minimum wage levels. Although few, if any, of our associates are paid at the minimum wage level, an increase in the minimum wage may create pressure to increase the pay scale for our associates, which would increase our labor costs and those of our franchisees and licensees. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase labor costs. In addition, changes in labor laws or reclassifications of associates from management to hourly employees could affect our labor cost. An increase in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our income from operations and decrease our profitability and cash available to service our debt obligations if we are unable to recover these increases by raising the prices we charge our customers. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation in connection with our operations. We are from time to time the subject of complaints or litigation from our consumers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In addition, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our future performance. We have been subject to claims from time to time, and although these claims have not historically had a material impact on our operations, a significant increase in the number of these claims or the number that are successful could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. 11 A regional or global health pandemic could severely affect our business. A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. If a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. We have positioned ourselves as a “neighborhood atmosphere” between home and work where people can gather together for human connection and high quality food. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gathering places to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or global pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of products and materials in our supply chain and causing staff shortages in our restaurants. The impact of a health pandemic might be disproportionately greater on us than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people in a neighborhood atmosphere. We rely in part on our franchisees and licensees. We rely in part on our franchisees and licensees and the manner in which they operate their locations to develop and promote our business. Although we have developed criteria to evaluate and screen prospective candidates, the candidates may not have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to operate successful locations in their respective areas. In addition, franchisees and licensees are subject to business risks similar to what we face such as competition, consumer acceptance, fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw ingredients, and increasing labor costs. The failure of franchisees and licensees to operate successfully could have a material adverse effect on us, our reputation, our ability to collect royalties, our brands and our ability to attract prospective candidates. As we move into offering franchises for our Einstein Bros. Bagel brand, our reliance on our franchisees is expected to increase in proportion to growth of the franchisee base. We face risks associated with government regulation. Each of our locations is subject to licensing and regulation by the health, sanitation, safety, labor, building and fire agencies of the respective states and municipalities in which it is located. A failure to comply with one or more regulations could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the closing of facilities for an indeterminate period of time, or third-party litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. In addition, our franchising operations are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission. Our franchisees and we must also comply with state franchising laws and a wide range of other state and local rules and regulations applicable to our business. The failure to comply with federal, state and local rules and regulations would have an adverse effect on our franchisees and us. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in such property. Such liability may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Although we are not aware of any environmental conditions that require remediation by us under federal, state or local law at our properties, we have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of our properties or operations. We may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our properties, and any such liabilities that are identified in the future may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may not be able to protect our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment 12 and protection of our trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights. However, the actions we take may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products and concepts by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. In addition, others may assert rights in our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights. We have and expect to continue to have a substantial amount of debt. We have a high level of debt and are highly leveraged. In addition, we may, subject to certain restrictions, incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our high level of debt, among other factors, could: · make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; · increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business or the economy generally; · limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures from our less leveraged competitors; and · harm us because a failure by us to comply with the covenants in the instruments and agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable, which could render us insolvent. We must comply with certain covenants inherent in our debt agreements to avoid defaulting under those agreements. Our debt agreements contain certain covenants, which, among others, include certain financial covenants such as limitations on capital expenditures, maintenance of the business, use of proceeds on sales of assets and minimum Adjusted EBITDA as defined in the agreements. The covenants also preclude the declaration and payment of dividends or other distributions to holders of our common stock. We are subject to multiple economic, financial, competitive, legal and other risks that are beyond our control and could harm our future financial results. Any adverse effect on our business or financial results could affect our ability to maintain compliance with our debt covenants. A failure by us to comply with the covenants in the instruments and agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable, which could render us insolvent. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our indebtedness. Economic, financial, competitive, legislative and other factors beyond our control may affect our ability to generate cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund necessary working capital. A significant reduction in operating cash flow would likely increase the need for alternative sources of liquidity. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our debt, we will have to pursue one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, refinancing our debt on terms that are not favorable to us, selling assets or raising equity. We may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms, if at all, and even if accomplished, they may not yield sufficient funds to service our debt. We have a majority stockholder. Greenlight Capital, L.L.C. and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 95 percent of our common stock. As a result, Greenlight has sufficient voting power, without the vote of any other stockholders, to determine what matters will be submitted for approval by our stockholders, to approve actions by written 13 consent without the approval of any other stockholders, to elect all of our board of directors, and to determine whether a change in control of our company occurs. Greenlight’s interests on matters submitted to stockholders may be different from those of other stockholders. Greenlight is not involved in our day-to-day operations, but Greenlight has voted its shares to elect our current board of directors. The chairman of our board of directors is a current employee of Greenlight. Our common stock is not currently listed on any stock exchange or Nasdaq. As a result, we are not subject to corporate governance rules adopted by the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq requiring a majority of directors to be independent and requiring compensation and nominating committees that are composed solely of independent directors. However, we are subject to rules requiring that the audit committee consist entirely of independent directors. Under the rules of these stock exchanges and Nasdaq, if a single stockholder holds more that 50% of the voting power of a listed company, that company is considered a controlled company, and except for the rules relating to independence of the audit committee, is exempt from the above-mentioned independence rules. Since Greenlight beneficially owns approximately 95 percent of our common stock, we may take advantage of the controlled company exemption if our common stock becomes listed on an exchange or Nasdaq in the future. As a result, our stockholders currently do not have, and may never have, the protections that these rules are intended to provide. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. If a substantial number of shares of our common stock are sold in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. The perception among investors that these sales will occur could also produce this effect. Our majority stockholder Greenlight beneficially owns approximately 95 percent of our common stock and sales by Greenlight or a perception that Greenlight will sell could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Additionally, holders of outstanding warrants may convert and sell the underlying shares in the public market. Pursuant to our obligations under registration rights agreements, we registered 957,872 shares of common stock underlying certain warrants, of which Greenlight owns warrants to purchase approximately 493,683 shares of our common stock. Sales of shares or a perception that there will be sales of the underlying shares could also cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Holders may find it difficult to effect transactions in our common stock. Our common stock is currently trading on the ‘‘pink sheets’’ under the symbol ‘‘NWRG.PK.’’ Since our common stock is not listed on Nasdaq, Amex or the New York Stock Exchange, holders of our common stock may find that the liquidity of our common stock is impaired—not only in the number of securities that can be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, lack of security analysts’ and the news media’s coverage of us, and lower prices for our securities than might otherwise be attained. Securities that are not listed on a stock exchange, the Nasdaq National Market or the Nasdaq SmallCap Market are subject to an SEC rule that imposes special requirements on broker-dealers who sell those securities to persons other than their established customers and accredited investors. The broker-dealer must determine that the security is suitable for the purchaser and must obtain the purchaser’s written consent prior to the sale. These requirements may make it more difficult for stockholders to sell our stock than the stock of some other companies. It may also affect our ability to raise more capital if and when necessary. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 14 