Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the beginning of Item 1 of this Annual Report. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters We face constant changes in governmental standards by which our products are evaluated. We believe that, due to the constant focus on the environment and clean air standards throughout the world, a requirement in the future to adhere to new and more stringent regulations both domestically and abroad is possible as governmental agencies seek to improve standards required for certification of products intended to promote clean air. In the event our products fail to meet these ever-changing standards, some or all of our products may become obsolete. Future growth of our business depends, in part, on successful verification of our products and retention of our verifications. We believe that it is an essential requirement of the U.S. retrofit market that emissions control products and systems are verified under the EPA and/or California Air Resources Board protocols to qualify for credits within the EPA and/or California Air Resources Board programs. Funding for these emissions control products and systems is generally limited to those products and technologies that have already been verified. In 2009, we intend to verify our Platinum Plus fuel-borne catalyst in combination with a high performance diesel particulate filter with California Air Resources Board. We have no assurance that our product will be verified by California Air Resources Board or that such a verification will be acceptable to the EPA. Verification is also useful for commercial acceptability. EPA verifications were withdrawn on two of our products in January 2009 because available test results were not accepted by EPA as meeting new emissions testing requirements for NO2 measurement. Although prior testing indicates satisfactory performance can be achieved, we have no assurance that the EPA will determine that the results of the proposed evaluations will meet the new standards, nor whether additional testing which may be required by EPA will be adequate to remove any remaining concern the EPA may have regarding use of our fuel-borne catalyst. 14 Table of Contents Future growth of our business depends, in part, on enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and further tightening of emission standards worldwide. We expect that the future business growth will be driven, in part, by the enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and tightening of emissions standards worldwide. If such standards do not continue to become stricter or are loosened or are not enforced by governmental authorities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. New metal standards, lower environmental limits or stricter regulation for health reasons of platinum or cerium could be adopted and affect use of our products. New standards or environmental limits on the use of platinum or cerium metal by a governmental agency could adversely affect our ability to use our Platinum Plus fuel-borne catalyst in some applications. In addition, California Air Resources Board requires “multimedia” assessment (air, water, soil) of the fuel-borne catalyst. The EPA could require a “Tier III” test of the Platinum Plus fuel-borne catalyst at any time to determine additional health effects of platinum or cerium which tests may involve additional costs beyond our current resources. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face competition and technological advances by competitors. There is significant competition among companies that provide solutions for pollutant emissions from diesel engines. Several companies market products that compete directly with our products. Other companies offer products that potential customers may consider to be acceptable alternatives to our products and services. We face direct competition from companies with greater financial, technological, manufacturing and personnel resources. Newly developed products could be more effective and cost efficient than our current or future products. We also face indirect competition from vehicles using alternative fuels, such as methanol, hydrogen, ethanol and electricity. We depend on intellectual property and the failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and other agreements with employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property. However, some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application, and, despite precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. We do not know whether any patents will be issued from pending or future patent applications or whether the scope of the issued patents is sufficiently broad to protect our technologies or processes. Moreover, patent applications and issued patents may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Some of our patents, including a platinum fuel-borne catalyst patent, expired in 2008. However, we believe that other longer lived patents, including those for platinum and other fuel-borne catalyst materials in combination with after-treatment devices, will provide adequate protection of our proprietary technology, but there can be no assurance we will be successful in protecting our proprietary technology. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally have entered into nondisclosure agreements with employees, consultants and corporate partners. We also have attempted to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. We plan to continue these procedures. Despite these procedures, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and make unauthorized use of our technologies or independently develop similar technologies. The steps that we have taken and that may occur in the future might not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect the proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. 15 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting our proprietary rights. Any infringement upon our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell commercially competitive systems and components. Our results may fluctuate due to certain regulatory, marketing and competitive factors over which we have little or no control. The factors listed below, some of which we cannot control, may cause our revenue and results of operations to fluctuate significantly: · Actions taken by regulatory bodies relating to the verification, registration or health effects of our products. · The extent to which our Platinum Plus fuel-borne catalyst and ARIS nitrogen oxides reduction products obtain market acceptance. · The timing and size of customer purchases. · Customer concerns about the stability of our business which could cause them to seek alternatives to our solutions and products. · Increases in raw material costs, especially platinum. An extended interruption of the supply or a substantial increase in the price of platinum could have an adverse effect on our business. The cost of platinum or the processing cost associated with converting the metal may have a direct impact on the future pricing and profitability of our Platinum Plus fuel-borne catalyst. The market price for platinum increased from $480 per ounce in early 2002 to $965 per ounce at December 31, 2005, $1,120 per ounce at December 31, 2006, $1,530 per ounce at December 31, 2007 and decreased to $910 per ounce at December 31, 2008. On January 30, 2009, the London Metal Exchange afternoon fixing for platinum was $990 per ounce. Although we may minimize this risk through various purchasing and hedging strategies, there can be no assurance that this will be successful. A shortage in the supply of platinum or a significant, prolonged increase in the price of platinum, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our future success. Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to retain current key personnel, attract and retain future key personnel, additional qualified management, marketing, scientific, and engineering personnel, and develop and maintain relationships with research institutions and other outside consultants. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, or the failure to assimilate effectively such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently depend on the marketability of a limited number of primary products and technologies, including Platinum Plus fuel-borne catalyst, ARIS advanced reagent injection system for selective catalytic reduction, Purifier Systems and catalyzed wire mesh filters. Our Platinum Plus fuel-borne catalyst, ARIS advanced reagent injection system for selective catalytic reduction, Purifier Systems and our catalyzed wire mesh filter are currently our primary products and technologies. Failure of any of our products or technologies to achieve market acceptance may limit our growth potential. Further, our gross profit may vary widely in relation to the mix of products and technologies that we sell during any reporting period. We may have to cease operations if all of our primary products fail to achieve market acceptance or fail to generate significant revenue. Additionally, the marketability of our products may be dependent upon obtaining verifications from regulatory agencies such as the EPA, California Air Resources Board, or similar European agencies, as well as the effectiveness of our products in relation to various environmental regulations in the many jurisdictions in which we market and sell our products. We may not be able to successfully market new products that are developed or obtain direct or indirect verification or approval of our new products. We plan to market other emissions reduction devices used in combination with the Platinum Plus fuel-borne catalyst, ARIS injector, EGR-SCR, catalyzed wire mesh filter and diesel particulate filter regeneration. There are numerous development and verification issues that may preclude the introduction of these products for commercial sale. If we are unable to demonstrate the feasibility of these products or obtain verification or approval for the products from regulatory agencies, we may have to abandon the products or alter our business plan. Such modifications to our business plan will likely delay achievement of revenue milestones and profitability. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have incurred losses in the past and expect to incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses since inception totaling $58.9 million as of December 31, 2008, which amount includes approximately $4.8 million of non-cash preferred stock dividends. At the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our cash and cash equivalents and investments are estimated to be sufficient for our needs through mid-2010. We have recognized limited revenues through December 31, 2008 and expect to continue to incur operating losses at least through 2009. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain significant revenues, positive cash flows from operations or profitability in the future. See the discussion below under the caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We have no assurances of additional funding. We may seek additional funding in the form of a private or public offering of equity securities. Debt financing would be difficult to obtain because of limited assets and cash flows as well as current general economic conditions. Any equity funding may depend on prior stockholder approval of an amendment to our certificate of incorporation authorizing additional capital. Any offering of shares of our common stock may result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Our ability to consummate financing will depend on the status of our marketing programs and commercialization progress, as well as conditions then prevailing in the relevant capital markets. There can be no assurance that such funding will be available if needed, or on acceptable terms. In the event that we need additional funds and are unable to raise such funds, we may be required to delay, reduce or severely curtail our operations or otherwise impede our on-going commercialization, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. See the discussion below under the caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If third parties claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to expend significant financial resources and management time litigating such claims and our operating results could suffer. Third parties may claim that our products and systems infringe upon third-party patents and other intellectual property rights. Identifying third-party patent rights can be particularly difficult, especially since patent applications are not published until up to 18 months after their filing dates. If a competitor were to challenge our patents, or assert that our products or processes infringe its patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to make expensive product modifications, pay substantial damages or even be forced to cease some operations. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only drain financial resources but also divert the time and effort of management and could result in customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products or services until resolution of the litigation. We have been dependent on a few major customers for a significant portion of our revenue and our revenue could decline if we are unable to maintain or develop relationships with current or potential customers. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, one customer accounted for approximately 15% of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2007, three customers accounted for approximately 70% of our revenue and for the year ended December 31, 2006, two customers accounted for approximately 42% of our revenue. We intend to establish long-term relationships with existing customers and continue to expand our customer base. While we diligently seek to become less dependent on any single customer, it is likely that certain contractual relationships may result in one or more customers contributing to a significant portion of our revenue in any given year for the foreseeable future. The loss of one or more of our significant customers may result in a material adverse effect on our revenue, our ability to become profitable or our ability to continue our business operations. 17 Table of Contents Foreign currency fluctuations could impact financial performance. We have increased our activities in the U.K., Europe and Asia, and consequently, are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We may manage the risk to such exposure by entering into foreign currency futures and option contracts. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a significant effect on our operations in the future. An inability to realize proceeds from our auction rate securities right issued by UBS may significantly impact our liquidity. On November 6, 2008, the Company accepted from UBS an Offer to acquire a “put” right to sell to UBS commencing June 30, 2010 the Company's holdings of $11.7 million par value in auction rate securities (ARS). Also, UBS has established a loan facility whereby the Company may borrow up to 75% of the UBS-determined value of these ARS collateralized by the securities. There can be no assurance that the financial position of UBS will be such as to afford the Company the ability to acquire the par value of ARS upon exercise of the put right. We have not and do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock. We have not paid dividends on our common stock since inception, and do not intend to pay any dividends to our stockholders in the foreseeable future. We intend to reinvest earnings, if any, in the development and expansion of our business. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the sale of a significant number of new common shares. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants or shares of common stock that may be issued in the public market or a private placement to fund our operations or the perception by the market that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional working capital through the sale of equity securities. The perceived risk of dilution may cause existing stockholders to sell their shares of stock, which would contribute to a decrease in the stock price. In that regard, downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock may also cause investors to engage in short sales, which would further contribute to downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market and the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange. Our common stock trades on these exchanges in the U.S. and the U.K. and in Germany on various regional stock exchanges and the national electronic exchange (Xetra), and an investor’s ability to trade the stock may be limited by trading volume and price volatility. The trading volume in our common stock has been relatively limited and a consistently active trading market for our common stock may not develop. Our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market effective October 3, 2007. Prior to this date, our common stock was traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. The average daily trading volume in our common stock on these exchanges in 2008 was approximately 7,915 shares. There has been significant volatility in the market prices of publicly traded shares of emerging growth technology companies, including our shares. Factors such as announcements of technical developments, verifications, establishment of distribution agreements, significant sales orders, changes in governmental regulation and developments in patent or proprietary rights may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. As outlined above, there has been a low average daily trading volume of our common stock. To the extent this trading pattern continues, the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of relatively minor changes in demand for our shares and sales of our stock by holders. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 