ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to many risks and uncertainties that may affect our future financial performance and our stock price. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our financial performance to vary or that may materially or adversely affect our financial performance or stock price are discussed below. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision. We cannot assure you of a profit or protect you against a loss on an investment in our company. Risks Relating to Our Business and Recent Merger We will need to have additional sources of funding in order to conduct our operations for any reasonable length of time, and no such funding is yet in place or committed, nor do we have any assurances of additional funding. Although we and certain of our subsidiaries entered into a $7.5 million secured demand facility backed by our receivables and inventory on February 14, 2011 and used a portion of the initial advances under this facility to pay in full the balance of our obligations under the credit facility with Fifth Third Bank, we will nevertheless need additional sources of funding in order to conduct our operations for any reasonable length of time. Any such additional funding may be in the form of debt financing or a private or public offering of equity securities. We believe that debt financing would be difficult to obtain because of our limited assets and cash flows as well as current general economic conditions. Any offering of shares of our common stock or of securities convertible into shares of our common stock may result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Our ability to consummate a financing will depend not only our ability to achieve operating efficiencies and other synergies post-Merger, as well as our success in integrating CDTI’s and CSI’s operations, but also on conditions then prevailing in the relevant capital markets. There can be no assurance that such funding will be available if needed, or on acceptable terms. In the event that we need additional funds and are unable to raise such funds, we may be required to delay, reduce or severely curtail our operations or otherwise impede our on-going business efforts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. Our auditor’s report for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes a “going concern” explanatory paragraph. The Merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition and, as a result, our company’s (the legal acquirer) consolidated financial statements are those of CSI (the accounting acquirer), with the assets and liabilities, and revenues and expenses, of CDTI being included effective from the date of the closing of the Merger. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $157.7 million. As a result, our auditor’s report for year ended December 31, 2010 includes an explanatory paragraph that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” Although the Merger provided some capital to the combined company, we nevertheless require additional capital in order to conduct our operations for any reasonable length of time. If we are not able to obtain additional sources of funding, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long term prospects. Future growth of our business depends, in part, on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, as well as enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and further tightening of emission standards worldwide. Future growth of our business depends in part on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, which can be affected for economic as well as political reasons. For example, in light of the recent budget crisis in California, funding was not available for a state-funded emissions control project and its start date was pushed back. A recent budget proposal put forth by the Obama administration did not include funding for the EPA’s diesel emissions reduction act program in fiscal 2012. Funding for these types of emissions control projects drives demand for our projects. If such funding is not available, it can negatively affect our future growth prospects. In addition to funding, we also expect that our future business growth will be driven, in part, by the enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and tightening of emissions standards worldwide. If such standards do not continue to become stricter or are loosened or are not enforced by governmental authorities due to commercial and business pressure or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. 14 Table of Contents We have not experienced positive cash flow from our operations, and our ability to achieve positive cash flow from operations, or finance negative cash flow from operations, could depend on reductions in our operating costs, which may not be achievable, or from increased sales, which may not occur. Both CDTI and CSI historically operated with negative cash flow from operations. Although we have identified areas where economies can be affected, whether or not we will be successful in realizing these cost-savings, as well as when we are able to effect these economies and the overall restructuring costs we will incur cannot be known at this time. In addition, while we have identified revenue opportunities that if realized would positively affect our cash flows, there is no assurance that such opportunities will be realized. All of these will be important factors in determining whether we will have sufficient cash resources available to maintain our operations for any appreciable length of time. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger. To be successful after the Merger, we need to combine and integrate the businesses and operations of CDTI and CSI. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices. The integration process may divert the attention of our executive officers and management from day-to-day operations and disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and, if implemented ineffectively, preclude realization of the expected full benefits of the Merger. We have not completed a merger or acquisition comparable in size or scope to the Merger. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of CDTI and CSI or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the Merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses and loss of customer relationships, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; • preserving important strategic and customer relationships; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • coordinating marketing functions; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; and • integrating the cultures of CDTI and CSI. In addition, even if we are successful in integrating the businesses and operations of CDTI and CSI, we may not fully realize the expected benefits of the Merger, including sales or growth opportunities that were anticipated, within the intended time frame, or at all. Further, because our respective businesses differ, our results of operations and market price of our common stock may be affected by factors different from those existing prior to the Merger and may suffer as a result of the Merger. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of the businesses and operations of CDTI and CSI will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the Merger. The Merger will likely adversely affect our ability to take advantage of the significant U.S. Federal tax loss carryforwards accumulated. We performed a study to evaluate the status of net operating loss carryforwards as a result of the Merger. Because the Merger caused an “ownership change” (as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes) as of the date of the Merger, our ability to use our net operating losses and credits in future tax years will be significantly limited. In addition, due to the “ownership change,” our federal research and development credits have also been limited and, consequently, we do not anticipate being able to use any of these credits that existed as of the date of the Merger in future tax years. Our limited ability to use these tax credits as a result of the Merger could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We have incurred significant expenses as a result of the Merger, and anticipate incurring additional Merger-related expenses, which will reduce the amount of capital available to fund the business after the Merger. We have incurred significant expenses relating to the Merger and expect to continue to incur expenses related to the Merger. These expenses include investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, and printing and other costs. There may also be unanticipated costs related to the Merger that we have not yet determined. As a result, we will have less capital available to fund our activities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management may be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we currently incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls as well as mandating certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time and financial resources to these compliance initiatives. For example, we have devoted a significant amount of time and attention to bring our financial reporting procedures up to public-company standards so as to allow management in the future to report on our internal control over financial reporting. These include ongoing costs in documenting, evaluating, testing and remediating our internal control procedures and systems as well as engaging consultants and specialists in Sarbanes-Oxley and SEC reporting and hiring additional personnel. If we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately, or maintain internal control systems adequate to meet the demands that are placed upon us as a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and our business and stock price may suffer. The costs of being a public company, as well as diversion of management’s time and attention, may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred losses in the past and expect to incur losses in the near future. Each of CDTI and CSI has suffered losses from operations since inception. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $157.7 million. Although we expect to realize certain operating synergies from the Merger, we nevertheless expect to continue to incur operating losses in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain significant revenues, positive cash flows from operations or profitability in the future. Historically, we have been dependent on a few major customers for a significant portion of our company’s revenue and the revenue could decline if we are unable to maintain or develop relationships with current or potential customers, or if such customers reduce demand for our products. Historically, each of CDTI and CSI derived a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Although the Merger provided additional customers to the combined company, for the year ended December 31, 2010, two customers accounted for approximately 32% of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2009, two customers accounted for approximately 46% of CSI’s revenue and two customers accounted for approximately 26% of CDTI’s revenue. We intend to establish long-term relationships with existing customers and continue to expand our customer base. While we diligently seek to become less dependent on any 16 Table of Contents single customer, and we anticipate that we will see reduced dependency on a number of customers as a combined company, it is likely that certain business relationships may result in one or more customers contributing to a significant portion of our revenue in any given year for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our relationships with our customers are based on purchase orders rather than long-term formal supply agreements, we are exposed to the risk of reduced sales if such customers reduce demand for our products. Reduced demand may arise for a variety of reasons over which we have no control, such as slow downs in vehicle production due to economic concerns, or as a result of the effects of natural disasters, including earthquakes and/or tsunamis. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, or reduced demand from one or more of our significant customers, would result in an adverse effect on our revenue, and could affect our ability to become profitable or our ability to continue our business operations. Foreign currency fluctuations could impact financial performance. Because of our activities in the U.K., Europe, Canada, South Africa and Asia, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We may manage the risk to such exposure by entering into foreign currency futures and option contracts of which there was one in 2009 and none in 2010. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a significant effect on our operations in the future. Risks Related to Our Industry We face constant changes in governmental standards by which our products are evaluated. We believe that, due to the constant focus on the environment and clean air standards throughout the world, a requirement in the future to adhere to new and more stringent regulations both domestically and abroad is possible as governmental agencies seek to improve standards required for certification of products intended to promote clean air. In the event our products fail to meet these ever-changing standards, some or all of our products may become obsolete. We face competition and technological advances by competitors. There is significant competition among companies that provide solutions for pollutant emissions from diesel engines. Several companies market products that compete directly with our products. Other companies offer products that potential customers may consider to be acceptable alternatives to our products and services, including products that are verified by the EPA and/or the CARB or other environmental authorities. We face direct competition from companies with greater financial, technological, manufacturing and personnel resources. Newly developed products could be more effective and cost efficient than our current or future products. We also face indirect competition from vehicles using alternative fuels, such as methanol, hydrogen, ethanol and electricity. We depend on intellectual property and the failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and other agreements with employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property. However, some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application, and, despite precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. We do not know whether any patents will be issued from pending or future patent applications or whether the scope of the issued patents is sufficiently broad to protect our technologies or processes. Moreover, patent applications and issued patents may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The patents protecting our proprietary technologies expire after a period of time. Currently, our patents have expiration dates ranging from 2011 through 2027. Although we have attempted to incorporate technology from our core patents into specific patented product applications, product designs and packaging to extend the lives of our patents, there can be no assurance that this building block approach will be successful in protecting our proprietary technology. If we are not successful in protecting our proprietary technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally have entered into nondisclosure agreements with employees, consultants and corporate partners. We also have attempted to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. We plan to continue these procedures. Despite these procedures, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and make unauthorized use of our technologies or 17 Table of Contents independently develop similar technologies. The steps that we have taken and that may occur in the future might not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect the proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting our proprietary rights. Any infringement upon our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell commercially competitive systems and components. If third parties claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to expend significant financial resources and management time litigating such claims and our operating results could suffer. Third parties may claim that our products and systems infringe upon third-party patents and other intellectual property rights. Identifying third-party patent rights can be particularly difficult, notably because patent applications are generally not published until up to 18 months after their filing dates. If a competitor were to challenge our patents, or assert that our products or processes infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to make expensive product modifications, pay substantial damages or even be forced to cease some operations. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only drain financial resources but also divert the time and effort of management and could result in customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products or services until resolution of the litigation. Our results may fluctuate due to certain regulatory, marketing and competitive factors over which we have little or no control. The factors listed below, some of which we cannot control, may cause our revenue and results of operations to fluctuate significantly: • Actions taken by regulatory bodies relating to the verification, registration or health effects of our products. • The extent to which our Platinum Plus® fuel-borne catalyst and ARIS® nitrogen oxides reduction products obtain market acceptance. • The timing and size of customer purchases. • Customer concerns about the stability of our business, which could cause them to seek alternatives to our solutions and products; and • Increases in raw material costs, particularly platinum group metals and rare earth metals. Failure of one or more key suppliers to timely deliver could prevent, delay or limit us from supplying products. Delays in delivery times for platinum group metal purchases could also result in losses due to fluctuations in prices. Delays in the delivery times and cost impact of the world-wide shortage of rare earth metals could delay us from supplying products and could result in lower profits. Due to customer demands, we are required to source critical materials and components such as ceramic substrates from single suppliers. Failure of one or more of the key suppliers to deliver timely could prevent, delay or limit us from supplying products because we would be required to qualify an alternative supplier. For certain products and customers, we are required to purchase platinum group metal materials. As commodities, platinum group metal materials are subject to daily price fluctuations and significant volatility, based on global market conditions. Historically, the cost of platinum group metals used in the manufacturing process has been passed through to the customer. This limits the economic risk of changes in market prices to platinum group metal usage in excess of nominal amounts allowed by the customer. However, going forward there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful passing platinum group metal price risk onto its current and future customers to minimize the risk of financial loss. Additionally, platinum group metal material is accounted for as inventory and therefore subject to lower of cost or market adjustments on a regular basis at the end of accounting periods. A drop in market prices relative to the purchase price of platinum group metal could result in a write-down of inventory. Due to the high value of platinum group metal materials, special measures have been taken to secure and insure the inventory. There is a risk that these measures may be inadequate and expose us to financial loss. We utilize rare earth metals in the production of some of our catalysts. Due to a reduction in export from China of these materials, there has been a world-wide shortage, leading to a lack of supply and higher prices. We risk delays in shipment due to this constrained supply and potentially lower margins if we are unable to pass the increased costs on to our customers. 18 Table of Contents Qualified management, marketing, and sales personnel are difficult to locate, hire and train, and if we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel, it will harm the ability of the business to grow. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain current key personnel, attract and retain future key personnel, additional qualified management, marketing, scientific, and engineering personnel, and develop and maintain relationships with research institutions and other outside consultants. Competition for qualified management, technical, sales and marketing employees is intense. In addition, as we work to integrate personnel following the Merger, some employees might leave the combined company and go to work for competitors. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, or the failure to assimilate effectively such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully market new products that are developed or obtain direct or indirect verification or approval of our new products. Some of our catalyst products and heavy duty diesel systems are still in the development or testing stage with targeted customers. We are developing technologies in these areas that are intended to have a commercial application, however, there is no guarantee that such technologies will actually result in any commercial applications. In addition, we plan to market other emissions reduction devices used in combination with our current products. There are numerous development and verification issues that may preclude the introduction of these products for commercial sale. These proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in a developing business enterprise, including the likelihood of continued operating losses. If we are unable to demonstrate the feasibility of these proposed commercial applications and products or obtain verification or approval for the products from regulatory agencies, we may have to abandon the products or alter our business plan. Such modifications to our business plan will likely delay achievement of revenue milestones and profitability. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures of our products could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Customers rely upon our products to meet emissions control standards imposed upon them by government. Failure of our products to meet such standards could expose us to claims from customers. Our products are also integrated into goods used by consumers and therefore a malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability claims. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products, which would materially impact our financial condition and operating results. Future growth of our business depends, in part, on market acceptance of our catalyst products, successful verification of our products and retention of our verifications. While we believe that there exists a viable market for our developing catalyst products, there can be no assurance that such technology will succeed as an alternative to competitors’ existing and new products. The development of a market for the products is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The adoption cycles of our key customers are lengthy and require extensive interaction with the customer to develop an effective and reliable catalyst for a particular application. While we continue to develop and test products with key customers, there can be no guarantee that all such products will be accepted and commercialized. Our relationships with our customers are based on purchase orders rather than long-term formal supply agreements. Generally, once a catalyst has successfully completed the testing and certification stage for a particular application, it is generally the only catalyst used on that application and therefore unlikely that, unless there are any defects, the customer will try to replace that catalyst with a competing product. However, our customers usually have alternate suppliers for their products and there is no assurance that we will continue to win the business. Also, although we work with our customers to obtain product verifications in accordance with their projected production requirements, there is no guarantee that we will be able to receive all necessary approvals for our catalysts by the time a customer needs such products, or that a customer will not accelerate its requirements. If we are not successful in having verified catalyst products to meet customer requirements, it will have a negative effect on our revenues, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents If a market fails to develop or develops more slowly than anticipated, we may be unable to recover the costs we will have incurred in the development of our products and may never achieve profitability. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to develop, manufacture or market our products or components if market conditions do not support the continuation of the product or component. We believe that it is an essential requirement of the U.S. retrofit market that emissions control products and systems are verified under the EPA and/or CARB protocols to qualify for funding from the EPA and/or CARB programs. Funding for these emissions control products and systems is generally limited to those products and technologies that have already been verified. Verification is also useful for commercial acceptability. Notably, EPA verifications were withdrawn on two of our products in January 2009 because available test results were not accepted by EPA as meeting new emissions testing requirements for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) measurement. As a general matter, we have no assurance that our products will be verified by the CARB or that such a verification will be acceptable to the EPA. If we are not able to obtain necessary product verifications, it will limit our ability to commercialize such products, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and on our results of operations. New metal standards, lower environmental limits or stricter regulation for health reasons of platinum or cerium could be adopted and affect use of our products. New standards or environmental limits on the use of platinum or cerium metal by a governmental agency could adversely affect our ability to use our Platinum Plus® fuel-borne catalyst in some applications. In addition, the CARB requires “multimedia” assessment (air, water, soil) of the fuel-borne catalyst. The EPA could require a “Tier III” test of the Platinum Plus® fuel-borne catalyst at any time to determine additional health effects of platinum or cerium, which tests may involve additional costs beyond our current resources. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The investors in CSI’s capital raise, who converted their shares of Class B common stock into shares of our common stock in the Merger, collectively hold a large percentage of our outstanding common stock, and, should they choose to act together, will have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval; such shareholders’ priorities for our business may be different from our other stockholders. A significant amount of our outstanding common stock is collectively held by the purchasers of CSI’s secured convertible notes in its capital raise (which notes converted into CSI’s Class B common stock and were exchanged for shares of our common stock in the Merger). Accordingly, the investors in CSI’s capital raise, should they choose to act together, will be able to significantly influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction, such that the investors in CSI’s capital raise, should they choose to act together, could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The interests of the investors in CSI’s capital raise may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the sale of a significant number of new common shares. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional working capital through the sale of equity securities. On October 15, 2010, we issued (or reserved for issuance) an aggregate 2,287,872 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 666,581 shares of our common stock, each on a post-split basis after eliminating fractional shares, in connection with the Merger. We also issued 109,020 shares and warrants to purchase an additional 166,666 shares of our common stock, each on a post-split basis after eliminating fractional shares, in a Regulation S offering, as well as 32,414 shares and warrants to purchase an additional 14,863 shares, each on a post-split basis after eliminating fractional shares, as compensation for services rendered in connection with the Merger and our Regulation S offering. Resales of these shares by the holders thereof (some of whom received registered shares and some of whom have registration rights), resales of the shares received upon exercise of the warrants, or the sale of additional shares by us in the public market or a private placement to fund our operations, or the perception by the market that these sales could occur, could contribute to downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. 20 Table of Contents The risk of dilution, perceived or actual, may contribute to downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. We have outstanding warrants and stock options to purchase shares of our common stock, and it is contemplated that additional shares or options to acquire shares of our common stock will be issued for certain employees and others affiliated with our company. The exercise of these securities will result in the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of our common stock, whether in the public market or in a private placement to fund our operations, or as compensation. These issuances, particularly where the exercise price or purchase price is less than the current trading price for our common stock, could be viewed as dilutive to the holders of our common stock. The risk of dilution, perceived or actual, may cause existing stockholders to sell their shares of stock, which would contribute to a decrease in the price of shares of our common stock. In that regard, downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock may also cause investors to engage in short sales, which would further contribute to downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. There has historically been limited trading volume in, and significant volatility in the price of, our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market. CDTI’s common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market effective October 3, 2007. Prior to this date, CDTI’s common stock was traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Historically, the trading volume in our common stock has been relatively limited and a consistently active trading market for our common stock may not develop. The average daily trading volume in CDTI’s common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market in 2010 prior to the Merger was approximately 5,700 shares (on a pre-split basis). However, in the period immediately following the Merger and the reverse stock split, we experienced significantly higher trading volume than typical for our company. There has been significant volatility in the market prices of publicly traded shares of emerging growth technology companies, including our shares. During the last two weeks of October 2010 following the Merger and the reverse stock split, the price for a share of our common stock ranged from as low as $3.00 per share to as high as $44.38 per share. On March 23, 2011, the closing price for a share of our common stock was $5.51 per share. Factors such as announcements of technical developments, verifications, establishment of distribution agreements, significant sales orders, changes in governmental regulation and developments in patent or proprietary rights may have a significant effect on the future market price of our common stock. As noted above, there has historically been a low average daily trading volume of our common stock. To the extent this trading pattern continues, the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of relatively minor changes in demand for our shares and sales of our stock by holders. We have not and do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock. We have not paid dividends on our common stock since inception, and do not intend to pay any dividends to our stockholders in the foreseeable future. We intend to reinvest earnings, if any, in the development and expansion of our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 