ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to risks and uncertainties that may affect our future financial performance and our stock price. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our financial performance to vary or that may materially or adversely affect our financial performance or stock price are discussed below. Any of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we believe to be immaterial, could harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the cautionary statements and risk factors described elsewhere and the other information contained in this Annual report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent reports on Form 10-K and 8-K, before deciding to purchase, hold, or sell our stock. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have incurred losses and have not experienced positive cash flow from operations in the past and our ability to achieve profitability and positive cash flow from operations, or finance negative cash flow from operations, could depend on reductions in our operating costs, which may not be achievable, or from increased sales, which may not occur. Each of CDTI and CSI has suffered losses from operations since inception. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $165.0 and $157.7 million as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, we have historically operated with negative cash flow from operations. We had operating cash flow deficits from continuing operations of $14.6 million and $3.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Although we may identify areas where economies can be effected, whether or not we will be successful in realizing these cost-savings, as well as when we are able to effect these economies and the overall restructuring costs we may incur cannot be known at this time. In addition, while we have identified revenue opportunities that if realized would positively affect our cash flows, there is no assurance that such opportunities will be realized. All of these will be important factors in determining whether we will have sufficient cash resources available to maintain our operations for any appreciable length of time. In the event that we are unable to generate revenues or raise additional funds, we may be required to delay, reduce or severely curtail our operations or otherwise impede our on-going business efforts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. We are putting significant amounts of working capital at risk in order to pursue selected growth opportunities. If we are unable to realize the benefits of the investments in our inventory or timely utilize the inventory for other opportunities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are pursuing revenue generating opportunities relating to special government mandated retrofit programs such as those in London and California and potentially others in various jurisdictions in North America, Europe and Asia. Opportunities such as these require cash investment in operating expenses and working capital such as inventory and receivables prior to realizing profits and cash from sales. If we are not successful in accessing cash resources to make these investments we may miss out on these opportunities. Further, if we are not successful in generating sufficient sales from these opportunities, we will not realize the benefits of the investments in inventory, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Funding from our existing equity line of credit may be limited or be insufficient to implement our growth plans. Under our purchase agreement with Lincoln Park Capital (“LPC”), (the “Purchase Agreement”), we may direct LPC to purchase up to $10.0 million worth of shares of our common stock over a 30 month period generally in amounts of up to $0.5 million every business day, which amounts may be increased under certain circumstances. Assuming a purchase price of $4.45 per share (the closing sale price of our common stock on March 26, 2012) and the purchase by LPC of the full 1,702,836 currently registered purchase shares, proceeds to us would be $7.6 million. However, our stock price has been extremely volatile and there is no guarantee we will be able to obtain funding from LPC at that level. For example, our stock price at December 31, 2011 was $2.80 which would have limited our funding capacity from LPC to $4.8 million. The extent to which we rely on LPC as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including, the amount, if any, of additional working capital needed, the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. If we are unable to sell enough of our products to finance our working capital requirements and if sufficient funding from LPC were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive, we would need to secure another source of funding. Even if we sell all $10.0 million under the Purchase Agreement to LPC, there can be no assurance this would be sufficient to fully implement our growth plans in all cases. 14 Table of Contents If the revenues from our growth opportunities and operations are below expectations or delayed, we could require additional working capital in order to maintain our operations. We have historically relied on outside sources of funding in the form of debt or equity. Although we have a demand credit facility backed by our receivables and inventory, there is no guarantee that we will be able to borrow to the full limit of $7.5 million if the lender chooses not to finance a portion of our receivables or inventory. We have been successful in raising $10.2 million through a public offering of shares in July 2011 but there is no guarantee that should the need arise, we will be able to do so again. Any required additional funding may be in the form of debt financing or a private or public offering of equity securities. We believe that debt financing would be difficult to obtain because of our limited assets and cash flows as well as current general economic conditions. Any additional offering of shares of our common stock or of securities convertible into shares of our common stock may result in further dilution to our existing stockholders. Our ability to consummate a financing will depend not only on our ability to achieve positive operating results, but also on conditions then prevailing in the relevant capital markets. There can be no assurance that such funding will be available if needed, or on acceptable terms. In the event that we are unable to raise such funds, we may be required to delay, reduce or severely curtail our operations or otherwise impede our on-going business efforts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. Future growth of our business depends, in part, on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, as well as enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and further tightening of emission standards worldwide. Future growth of our business depends in part on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, which can be affected for economic as well as political reasons. For example, in light of the recent budget crisis in California, funding was not available for a state-funded emissions control project for off-road diesel equipment and its start date was pushed back. Additionally, funding for the EPA’s Diesel Emissions Reductions Act (commonly referred to as DERA) for 2012 and beyond remains uncertain as budget discussions continue to be debated in the U.S. Congress. Funding for these types of emissions control projects drives demand for our products. If such funding is not available, it can negatively affect our future growth prospects. In addition to funding, we also expect that our future business growth will be driven, in part, by the enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and tightening of emissions standards worldwide. If such standards do not continue to become stricter or are loosened or are not enforced by governmental authorities due to commercial and business pressure or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. Foreign currency fluctuations could impact financial performance. Because of our activities in the U.K., Europe, Canada, South Africa and Asia, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We may manage the risk to such exposure by entering into foreign currency futures and option contracts of which there was none in 2010 or 2011. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a significant effect on our operations in the future. The Merger will adversely affect our ability to take advantage of the significant U.S. federal tax loss carryforwards and tax credits accumulated. In connection with the Merger, we performed a study to evaluate the status of net operating loss carryforwards as a result of the Merger. Because the Merger caused an “ownership change” (as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes) as of the date of the Merger, our ability to use our net operating losses and credits in future tax years is significantly limited. In addition, due to the “ownership change,” our federal research and development credits have also been limited and, consequently, we do not anticipate being able to use any of these credits that existed as of the date of the Merger in future tax years. Our limited ability to use these net operating losses and tax credits as a result of the Merger could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Historically, we have been dependent on a few major customers, particularly Honda, for a significant portion of our revenue and the revenue could decline if we are unable to maintain or develop relationships with current or potential customers, or if such customers reduce demand for our products. Historically, each of CDTI and CSI derived a significant portion of its respective revenue from a limited number of customers. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, sales to Honda, our largest customer, accounted for approximately 19% and 22%, respectively, of our revenue. We intend to establish long-term relationships with existing customers and continue to expand our customer base. While we diligently seek to become less dependent on any single customer, it is likely that certain business relationships may result in one or more customers contributing to a significant portion of our revenue in any given year for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our relationships with our customers are based on purchase orders rather than long-term formal supply agreements, we are exposed to the risk of reduced sales if such customers reduce demand for our products. Reduced demand may arise for a variety of reasons over which we have no control, such as slowdowns in vehicle production due to economic concerns, or as a result of the effects of natural disasters, including earthquakes and/or tsunamis. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, or reduced demand from one or more of our significant customers, would result in an adverse effect on our revenue, and could affect our ability to become profitable or our ability to continue our business operations. We have entered into contractual agreements in connection with the sale of certain of our assets, which may expose us to liability for claims for indemnification under such agreements. In the ordinary course of our business, we have entered into various agreements by which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Generally, these indemnification provisions are included in contracts arising in the normal course of business under which we customarily agree to hold the indemnified party harmless against losses arising from a breach of the contract terms. Payments by us under such indemnification clauses are generally conditioned on the other party making a claim. Such claims are generally subject to challenge by us and to dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular contract. Further, our obligations under these arrangements may be limited in terms of time and/or amount and, in some instances, we may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by us. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnification agreements due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts of each particular agreement. We depend on intellectual property and the failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and other agreements with employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property. However, some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application, and, despite precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. We do not know whether any patents will be issued from pending or future patent applications or whether the scope of the issued patents is sufficiently broad to protect our technologies or processes. Moreover, patent applications and issued patents may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The patents protecting our proprietary technologies expire after a period of time. Currently, our patents have expiration dates ranging from 2011 through 2027. Although we have attempted to incorporate technology from our core patents into specific patented product applications, product designs and packaging to extend the lives of our patents, there can be no assurance that this building block approach will be successful in protecting our proprietary technology. If we are not successful in protecting our proprietary technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally have entered into nondisclosure agreements with employees, consultants and corporate partners. We also have attempted to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. We plan to continue these procedures. Despite these procedures, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and make unauthorized use of our technologies or independently develop similar technologies. The steps that we have taken and that may occur in the future might not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect the proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. 16 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting our proprietary rights. For example, from time to time we have become aware of competing technologies employed by third parties which may be covered by one or more of our patents. In such situations, we may seek to grant licenses to such third parties or seek to stop the infringement, including through the threat of legal action. There is no assurance that we would be successful in negotiating a license agreement on favorable terms, if at all, or able to stop the infringement. Any infringement upon our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell commercially competitive systems and components. If we fail to obtain the right to use the intellectual property rights of others which are necessary to operate our business, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected. From time to time we may choose to or be required to license technology or intellectual property from third parties in connection with the development of our products. We cannot assure you that third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. The inability to obtain a necessary third-party license required for our product offerings or to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or of greater cost, either of which could adversely affect our business. If we are not able to obtain licenses from third parties, if necessary, then we may also be subject to litigation to defend against infringement claims from these third parties. Our competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to obtain or maintain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements, on favorable terms, our results of operations may be harmed. If third parties claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to expend significant financial resources and management time litigating such claims and our operating results could suffer. Third parties may claim that our products and systems infringe upon third-party patents and other intellectual property rights. Identifying third-party patent rights can be particularly difficult, notably because patent applications are generally not published until up to 18 months after their filing dates. If a competitor were to challenge our patents, or assert that our products or processes infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to make expensive product modifications, pay substantial damages or even be forced to cease some operations. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only drain financial resources but also divert the time and effort of management and could result in customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products or services until resolution of the litigation. Failure of one or more key suppliers to timely deliver could prevent, delay or limit us from supplying products. Delays in delivery times for platinum group metal purchases could also result in losses due to fluctuations in prices. Delays in the delivery times and cost impact of the world-wide shortage of rare earth metals could delay us from supplying products and could result in lower profits. Due to customer demands, we are required to source critical materials and components such as ceramic substrates from single suppliers. In 2011 and 2010, our three largest suppliers accounted for over 30% and 40%, respectively, of our raw material purchases. Failure of one or more of the key suppliers to deliver timely could prevent, delay or limit us from supplying products because we would be required to qualify an alternative supplier. For certain products and customers, we are required to purchase platinum group metal materials. As commodities, platinum group metal materials are subject to daily price fluctuations and significant volatility, based on global market conditions. Historically, the cost of platinum group metals used in the manufacturing process has been passed through to the customer. This limits the economic risk of changes in market prices to platinum group metal usage in excess of nominal amounts allowed by the customer. However, going forward there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in passing platinum group metal price risk onto our current and future customers to minimize the risk of financial loss. Additionally, platinum group metal material is accounted for as inventory and therefore subject to lower of cost or market adjustments on a regular basis at the end of accounting periods. A drop in market prices relative to the purchase price of platinum group metal could result in a write-down of inventory. Due to the high value of platinum group metal materials, special measures have been taken to secure and insure the inventory. There is a risk that these measures may be inadequate and expose us to financial loss. We utilize rare earth metals in the production of some of our catalysts. Due to a reduction in export from China of these materials, there has been a world-wide shortage, leading to a lack of supply and higher prices. We risk delays in shipment due to this constrained supply and potentially lower margins if we are unable to pass the increased costs on to our customers. 17 Table of Contents Qualified management, marketing, and sales personnel are difficult to locate, hire and train, and if we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel, it will harm the ability of the business to grow. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain current key personnel, attract and retain future key personnel, additional qualified management, marketing, scientific, and engineering personnel, and develop and maintain relationships with research institutions and other outside consultants. Competition for qualified management, technical, sales and marketing employees is intense. In addition, some employees might leave our company and go to work for competitors. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, or the failure to assimilate effectively such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully market new products that are developed or obtain direct or indirect verification or approval of our new products. Some of our catalyst products and heavy duty diesel systems are still in the development or testing stage with targeted customers. We are developing technologies in these areas that are intended to have a commercial application, however, there is no guarantee that such technologies will actually result in any commercial applications. In addition, we plan to market other emissions reduction devices used in combination with our current products. There are numerous development and verification issues that may preclude the introduction of these products for commercial sale. These proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in a developing business enterprise, including the likelihood of continued operating losses. If we are unable to demonstrate the feasibility of these proposed commercial applications and products or obtain verification or approval for the products from regulatory agencies, we may have to abandon the products or alter our business plan. Such modifications to our business plan will likely delay achievement of revenue milestones and profitability. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures of our products could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Customers rely upon our products to meet emissions control standards imposed upon them by government. Failure of our products to meet such standards could expose us to claims from customers. Our products are also integrated into goods used by consumers and therefore a malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability claims. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products, which would materially impact our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Industry We face constant changes in governmental standards by which our products are evaluated. We believe that, due to the constant focus on the environment and clean air standards throughout the world, a requirement in the future to adhere to new and more stringent regulations both domestically and abroad is possible as governmental agencies seek to improve standards required for certification of products intended to promote clean air. In the event our products fail to meet these ever-changing standards, some or all of our products may become obsolete. We face competition and technological advances by competitors. There is significant competition among companies that provide solutions for pollutant emissions from diesel engines. Several companies market products that compete directly with our products. Other companies offer products that potential customers may consider to be acceptable alternatives to our products and services, including products that are verified by the EPA and/or the CARB or other environmental authorities. We face direct competition from companies with greater financial, technological, manufacturing and personnel resources. Newly developed products could be more effective and cost-efficient than our current or future products. We also face indirect competition from vehicles using alternative fuels, such as methanol, hydrogen, ethanol and electricity. 18 Table of Contents Our results may fluctuate due to certain regulatory, marketing and competitive factors over which we have little or no control. The factors listed below, some of which we cannot control, may cause our revenue and results of operations to fluctuate significantly: • Actions taken by regulatory bodies relating to the verification, registration or health effects of our products; • The extent to which our Platinum Plus® fuel-borne catalyst and ARIS® nitrogen oxides reduction products obtain market acceptance; • The timing and size of customer purchases; • Customer concerns about the stability of our business, which could cause them to seek alternatives to our solutions and products; and • Increases in raw material costs, particularly platinum group metals and rare earth metals. Future growth of our business depends, in part, on market acceptance of our catalyst products, successful verification of our products and retention of our verifications. While we believe that there exists a viable market for our developing catalyst products, there can be no assurance that such technology will succeed as an alternative to competitors’ existing and new products. The development of a market for the products is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The adoption cycles of our key customers are lengthy and require extensive interaction with the customer to develop an effective and reliable catalyst for a particular application. While we continue to develop and test products with key customers, there can be no guarantee that all such products will be accepted and commercialized. Our relationships with our customers are based on purchase orders rather than long-term formal supply agreements. Generally, once a catalyst has successfully completed the testing and certification stage for a particular application, it is generally the only catalyst used on that application and therefore unlikely that, unless there are any defects, the customer will try to replace that catalyst with a competing product. However, our customers usually have alternate suppliers for their products and there is no assurance that we will continue to win the business. Also, although we work with our customers to obtain product verifications in accordance with their projected production requirements, there is no guarantee that we will be able to receive all necessary approvals for our catalysts by the time a customer needs such products, or that a customer will not accelerate its requirements. If we are not successful in having verified catalyst products to meet customer requirements, it will have a negative effect on our revenues, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. If a market fails to develop or develops more slowly than anticipated, we may be unable to recover the costs we will have incurred in the development of our products and may never achieve profitability. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to develop, manufacture or market our products or components if market conditions do not support the continuation of the product or component. We believe that it is an essential requirement of the U.S. retrofit market that emissions control products and systems are verified under the EPA and/or CARB protocols to qualify for funding from the EPA and/or CARB programs. Funding for these emissions control products and systems is generally limited to those products and technologies that have already been verified. Verification is also useful for commercial acceptability. Notably, EPA verifications were withdrawn on two of our products in January 2009 because available test results were not accepted by the EPA as meeting new emissions testing requirements for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) measurement. As a general matter, we have no assurance that our products will be verified by the CARB or that such a verification will be acceptable to the EPA. If we are not able to obtain necessary product verifications, it will limit our ability to commercialize such products, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and on our results of operations. New metal standards, lower environmental limits or stricter regulation for health reasons of platinum or cerium could be adopted and affect use of our products. New standards or environmental limits on the use of platinum or cerium metal by a governmental agency could adversely affect our ability to use our Platinum Plus® fuel-borne catalyst in some applications. In addition, the CARB requires “multimedia” assessment (air, water, soil) of the fuel-borne catalyst. The EPA could require a “Tier III” test of the Platinum Plus® fuel-borne catalyst at any time to determine additional health effects of platinum or cerium, which tests may involve additional costs beyond our current resources. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related Our Common Stock One of our shareholders holds a large percentage of our outstanding common stock, and, should they choose to do so, may have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. Approximately 15.6% of our outstanding common stock is held by Special Situations Funds, which acquired such shares of our common stock in our July 2011 underwritten public offering. Accordingly, such investor, should it choose to do so, may be able to significantly influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction, such that Special Situations Funds could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The interests of such investor may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the sale by us or our shareholders of a significant number of new common shares. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional working capital through the sale of equity securities. On July 5, 2011, we issued 3,053,750 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering. On October 15, 2010, we issued (or reserved for issuance) an aggregate 2,287,872 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 666,583 shares of our common stock, each on a post-split basis after eliminating fractional shares, in connection with the Merger. We also issued 109,020 shares and warrants to purchase an additional 166,666 shares of our common stock, each on a post-split basis after eliminating fractional shares, in a Regulation S offering, as well as 32,414 shares and warrants to purchase an additional 14,863 shares, each on a post-split basis after eliminating fractional shares, as compensation for services rendered in connection with the Merger and our Regulation S offering. Resales of these shares by the holders thereof (some of whom received registered shares and some of whom have registration rights), resales of the shares received upon exercise of the warrants, or the sale of additional shares by us in the public market or a private placement to fund our operations, or the perception by the market that these sales could occur, could contribute to downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. The sale of our common stock to LPC may cause dilution and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by LPC could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In connection with entering into a Purchase Agreement with LPC in October 2011, we authorized the issuance to LPC of up to $10,000,000 worth of shares of our common stock, plus 120,741 shares of common stock as commitment shares. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have not sold any shares to LPC under the Purchase Agreement. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by LPC is dependent upon the number of shares purchased by LPC under the Purchase Agreement. The purchase price for the common stock to be sold to LPC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement will fluctuate based on the price of our common stock. If we do sell shares to LPC, LPC may offer and sell 1,823,577 shares over a period of up to 30 months from December 2011 pursuant to an effective registration statement. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of the 1,823,577 registered shares, or additional shares we register or which LPC sells other than by means of a registration statement, at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We can elect to direct purchases in our sole discretion. After LPC has acquired such shares, it may sell all, some or none of such shares. Therefore, sales to LPC by us under the Purchase Agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by LPC, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. The risk of dilution, perceived or actual, may contribute to downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. We have outstanding warrants and stock options to purchase shares of our common stock, and it is contemplated that additional shares or options to acquire shares of our common stock will be issued. The exercise of these securities will result in the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of our common stock, whether in the public market or in a private placement to fund our operations, or as compensation. These issuances, particularly where the exercise price or purchase price is less than the current trading price for our common stock, could be viewed as dilutive to the holders of our common stock. The risk of dilution, perceived or actual, may cause existing stockholders to sell their shares of stock, which would contribute to a decrease in the price of shares of our common stock. In that regard, downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock may also cause investors to engage in short sales, which would further contribute to downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. 20 Table of Contents There has been and may continue to be significant volatility in the volume and price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. CDTI’s common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market effective October 3, 2007. In the period immediately following the Merger and the reverse stock split, we experienced significantly higher trading volume than typical for our company. Unusual trading volume in our shares has continued to occur from time to time. For example, the trading volume in our common stock exceeded seven million shares on March 12, 2012 and exceeded two million shares on March 13, 2012, whereas the average trading volume for the three weeks prior to those dates was 100,062 shares per day. The market price of our common stock also has been and may continue to be highly volatile. During the last two weeks of October 2010 following the Merger and the reverse stock split, the price for a share of our common stock ranged from as low as $1.50 per share to as high as $44.38 per share. On March 26, 2012, the closing price for a share of our common stock was $4.45 per share. Factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operations results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, may have a significant impact on the market volume and price of our stock. We have not paid and do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock. We have not paid dividends on our common stock since inception, and do not intend to pay any dividends to our stockholders in the foreseeable future. We intend to reinvest earnings, if any, in the development and expansion of our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 