D. Risk Factors An investment in the shares of the Company must be considered highly speculative due to the nature of the Company’s business and the current stage of exploration and development of its mineral resource properties. In particular the following risk factors apply. The order in which they appear does not necessarily reflect management’s opinion of their order of priority. The Company is subject to substantial risks associated with the mining industry related to exploration and development of its Property. The Company’s business is subject to risks normally encountered in the mining industry related to exploration and development. The profitability of its business and the market value of its securities will be related to its success in the development of and the placing into production of its Property. Mineral exploration and development involve significant risks and few exploration mineral properties that are 11 explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Substantial expenditures will be required to place the Property into commercial production. The Company has no known commercial reserves, as defined for the purposes of U.S. Securities legislation, on its Property. The Company has no known commercial reserves as defined for the purposes of U.S. Securities legislation on its Property. The SEC does not recognize Canada’s Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (National Instrument 43-101) under which the Company has reported mineral resources, and such information is not generally permitted in SEC reports of U.S. companies filed with the SEC. Until such time as the Prathanabats (mining license) and all other necessary permits are obtained and sales contracts sufficient to support a production decision are secured, the identified potash resource cannot be classified as a reserve under the SEC standard. The Company does not currently have sufficient funds to comply with its financial commitments under its Special Prospecting Licenses and Concession Agreement in Thailand and will have to raise additional funds to meet this obligation. In order to place the Property into commercial production, the Company must obtain a Prathanabats (Mining License), which requires a future payment of U.S.$5,000,000. As of December 31, 2005 the Company had $2.3 million in cash and the Company will have to raise additional funds to meet this and other obligations that will arise when a Prathanabat is obtained. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to raise such additional funds. The Company may not be granted the Mining License from the Thai government On May 29, 2003 the Company applied for a Mining License for the mining area covering the Company’s potash deposits described in the EIA (the “Application”). The Application is now under review as provided under Thailand’s revised mining law enacted on March 10, 2004. This process leads to approval, rejection or a request to modify and amend the Application. If the Application is not approved, the Company could lose the Property. There can be no assurance that the Application will be approved and that the Mining License will be obtained. The processing of this Application has been proceeding more slowly than the Company originally anticipated. It is the first application for a mining license for an underground mine in Thailand and the first application under the newly revised mining law. There is no precedent in Thailand for underground mining and so the public servants may be very cautious in taking action that will advance the approval. The Company does not currently have sufficient funds to construct or operate a mine on its Property The Company had $2.3 million cash as of December 31, 2005. Total capital cost for the initial stage is estimated at U.S. $308 million with the second stage at U.S. $221 million. It is anticipated , although there cannot be assurance , that the second stage could be financed from cash flow such that no additional equity financing would be necessary at that time. The Company will need to obtain financing from outside sources, as it does not have sufficient funds to construct or operate a mine on the Udon South deposit. The Company does not currently have any commitments from outside sources for the funding of any portion of the cost of placing the Udon South deposit into production. There can be no assurance that the Company or its subsidiary can raise such financing, or finalize a joint venture with industry partners, raise its proportionate share of costs in a joint venture with a partner or that these costs will not increase as a result of factors beyond its control. Takeover offer for shares of the Company On March 17, 2006 the Company entered into a pre-acquisition agreement for a cash takeover which subject to certain terms and conditions will result in an offer to purchase not less than two-thirds of the common shares of the Company for a price of $0.1425 per share. There is no assurance that the Offer will be concluded successfully. 12 Third party equity participation in the Udon South deposit will have a diluting effect on existing shareholders directly or on the Company’s holding in the project. The Company expects that the implementation of the Udon South project will involve a commercial relationship with one or more other companies for the purposes of market development and project financing. The level of third party equity participation to finance the project relative to the level of debt financing potentially will have a diluting effect on existing shareholders directly or on the Company’s holding in the project. Future currency exchange rates, costs and prices could have a materially adverse impact on the development of the Company’s Property. The Company’s estimated costs and prices, including potash selling prices, contained in the 1998 Kilborn Feasibility Study for the Udon South deposit were based on 1998 currency exchange rates, costs and prices. The Company engaged international consultants including AMEC/Ausenco for processing, Steffen, Robertson and Kirsten (Australasia) Pty Ltd. (“SRK”) for resources and mining, Golders for geotechnical and JT Boyd for mining, to evaluate development alternatives, the results of which were announced in October 2002. Based on the technical, economic and market studies, the Company has concluded that there is an optimum initial rate of production balancing the various parameters including orderly market entry, technical start-up and commissioning issues. After taking into account the relatively fixed costs of underground access and the transportation infrastructure the optimum was found to be a staged development starting at one million tonnes potash per annum and subsequently scaling up to two million tonnes per annum. Current values and exchange rates have been used rather than forecasting future trends. If future currency exchange rates, costs and prices change adversely from those used to calculate the estimated costs and prices, they could have a materially adverse impact on the feasibility of placing the Property into commercial production and on the Company’s financial condition. The Company may not be able to market its potash or to receive an adequate return on invested capital. If the Property is placed into commercial production, the marketability of the Company’s potash will be affected by numerous factors beyond control of the Company. These factors include market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of markets to absorb production from the Property, performance of plant and equipment, government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of potash and environmental protection, and competition with large established potash mining companies with substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than those of the Company. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Even if production is achieved, a combination of these factors may result in the Company not receiving any or an adequate return on invested capital. There can be no assurance that the growth in demand for potash in Asia (including China) will absorb the Company’s output in the future .. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater financial, technical, and other resources than it does and it may not be able to compete successfully. There are a number of large established potash mining companies with substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than those of the Company with which the Company will have to compete to capture markets for its products. There is no established commodity exchange or forward market for potash and the Company will have to compete in terms of price, product quality and quantity, service and reliability with these established companies to capture its market share. Environmental risks and compliance may create liabilities that could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. Mining operations generally involve a high degree of environmental risk. While certain of the Company’s senior executives have significant experience in mine construction and operation, the Company has not previously constructed or operated a mine and it does not have experience in managing environmental risks. Environmental risks, which include particulate emissions, waste management, mine subsidence, water usage and brine conversion and disposal, are risks against which the Company cannot insure or which the 13 Company may elect not to insure. The economic impact of managing environmental risks and remediation of any potential damage may have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions against the Company. The Company is required to comply with the terms of the Concession Agreement, the Special Prospecting Licenses and Thai laws and regulations respecting various aspects of its proposed mine development and operations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements, this may result in enforcement actions against it including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or to be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. The Company may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and the Company may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed upon it for violation of applicable laws or regulations. The Company has not received any revenues from operations to date and anticipates that it will continue to experience net losses until such time as profitable operations are achieved. The Company has no earnings record and is unlikely to receive revenues from its operations unless it achieves commercial production. The Company may continue to experience net losses even if it does achieve commercial production. There is no guarantee that the Company will be able to find a market for potash when it begins commercial production. Changes in political, social, business and economic conditions in Thailand could have a material effect on the business of the Company. The Company’s operations and assets are concentrated in Thailand. Therefore, political, social, business and economic conditions in Thailand will have significant effect on the business of the Company. Thailand has been assessed as medium political risk by AON Political Risk, alongside South Africa and China. The country has a free-enterprise economy that welcomes foreign investment. Thailand reported 2004 gdp growth of 6.1%. Any changes to tax regimes, laws which affect the Property, exchange controls or political action could impair the value of the Company’s investment, and may adversely affect its financial position and the results of its operations. Thailand has little judicial or administrative experience with large mineral projects and, as a result, the Company does not know how Thailand may deal with mining issues that may arise. As the Company’s Property is located in Thailand, actions by the Thai government and currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on its business. As the Company’s Property is located in Thailand, currency fluctuations, exchange controls, restriction on foreign investment, changes to laws which affect the Property, changes to tax regimes or political action could impair the value of the Company’s investment, and may adversely affect its financial position and the results of its operations. Thailand has little judicial or administrative experience with large mineral projects and, as a result, the Company does not know how Thailand may deal with mining issues that may arise. The Company may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is susceptible to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, with regard to development of its Property in Thailand. The Company does not use derivative instruments in order to reduce its exposure to foreign exchange risk but it may be required by financing institutions or may elect to adopt such procedures in conjunction with financing the construction of the Property. The Company’s future capital expenditure and product revenue are largely expected to be denominated in U.S. dollars, while operating expenses are expected to be incurred in Thai baht or U.S. dollars. In the last five years, the Thai baht has traded in a relatively stable pattern averaging 41.87 baht per U.S.$1.00. The average exchange rate for each of the previous five calendar years: 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 40.26 40.22 41.48 42.96 44.43 14 The Company’s primary listing is on the Toronto Stock Exchange. However, in the United States the Company’s common shares are subject to the SEC's penny stock rules which could decrease their liquidity. The Company’s common shares have for the last several years traded at a price of less than U.S.$5.00 and, therefore, would be subject to the regulations on penny stocks. As such, the market liquidity for the Company’s common shares could be severely and adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company’s common shares and the ability of shareholders to sell their common shares at a time and price acceptable to them. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks”. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than U.S.$5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the Nasdaq system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rule requires a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standard risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statement s showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. 