ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of risk factors contains "forward-looking statements," as discussed on page 2 of this report. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this report or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this report. We Depend Upon Network Affiliation Agreements Each of the television stations we own or manage is a party to a network affiliation agreement giving such station the right to rebroadcast programs transmitted by the network, except WMOR-TV, in Tampa, Florida, which operates as an independent station. These affiliations are valuable to us because programs provided by the major networks are typically the most popular with audiences, which increases our ability to attract viewers to our programs, including our local newscasts. In exchange for giving us the right to rebroadcast their programs, the networks have the right to sell a substantial majority of the advertising time during such broadcasts. Thirteen of our stations are parties to affiliation agreements with ABC, 10 with NBC, two with CBS, two with CW and one with MyNetworkTV. In addition, because networks increasingly distribute their programming on other platforms, such as the Internet or portable devices, they may become less reliant upon their affiliates to distribute their programming, which could put us at a disadvantage in future contract negotiations. Our affiliation agreements with both NBC and ABC expire on December 31, 2009. If we fail to renew any of our network affiliation agreements, or if we renew them on less favorable programming terms than we presently have, the viewership of our stations could decline, which would adversely impact our ability to sell advertising, which could materially decrease our revenue and operating results. We Depend Upon Networks for Programming Our viewership levels, and ultimately advertising revenues, for each station are materially dependent upon programming which is either supplied to us by the networks or purchased by us. First, programming which the networks provide to us may not achieve or maintain satisfactory viewership levels. Specifically, because 23 of our 29 owned or managed stations are ABC or NBC affiliates, if ABC or NBC network programming fails to generate satisfactory ratings, our revenues may be adversely affected. In addition, the future of newer networks such as CW and MyNetworkTV is uncertain; if these networks do not succeed, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain successful programming for our two stations who are affiliated with these networks. Second, networks are increasingly distributing their programming on other platforms such as the Internet or portable devices, which could dilute the value of our programming line up. While our affiliation agreements currently provide us the right to air the first run of network programs (i.e., before it is distributed over other platforms), there can be no assurance that we will continue to have first run rights in the future. We also purchase syndicated programming to supplement the shows supplied to us by the networks. Generally, however, before we purchase syndicated programming for our stations, this programming must first be cleared in the largest television markets—New York, Los Angeles and Chicago. Network owned and operated stations in those markets typically determine which syndicated shows will be brought to market, and therefore dictate our options for syndicated programs. If those stations do not launch new shows for the national marketplace, or if the shows that they launch, and which in turn we acquire, fail to generate satisfactory ratings, our viewership levels may decrease and our revenues may be adversely affected. Increased Programming Costs Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Operating Results Television programming is one of our most significant operating cost components. We may be exposed in the future to increased programming costs. Should such an increase in our programming expenses occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, television 18 Table of Contents networks have been seeking arrangements with their affiliates to share the networks' programming costs and to change the structure of network compensation, including eliminating compensation to affiliates and seeking reverse compensation, or payment from affiliates in consideration for the network's programming. If we become party to an arrangement whereby we share our networks' programming costs, our programming expenses would increase further. In addition, we usually acquire syndicated programming rights two or three years in advance and acquiring those rights may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In some instances, we must replace programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase station operating costs. An increase in the cost of news programming and content or in the costs for on-air and creative talent may also increase our expenses, particularly during events requiring extended news coverage, and therefore adversely affect our business and operating results. Finally, cable distributors are increasingly competing with us or the networks with which we are affiliated for the rights to carry popular sports programming, which could increase our costs, or if we were to lose the rights to broadcast such sports programming, could adversely affect our audience share and operating results. A Further Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results We rely substantially upon sales of advertising for our revenues. Our ability to generate advertising revenues is and will continue to be affected by changes in the national economy, as well as by regional economic conditions in each of the markets in which our stations operate. The size of advertisers' budgets, which are affected by broad economic trends, affect the broadcast industry in general and the revenues of individual broadcast television stations. Exclusive of political and Olympic advertising, our advertisers purchased less advertising time from us during 2008 due to the ongoing economic recession. If the recession were to persist or worsen through 2009 and beyond, our advertising revenues would further decline, which would negatively impact our financial results even more than has occurred to date, which could negatively impact our ability to maintain our existing debt covenants and/or to refinance our existing debt. In addition, a further decline in ad revenues and subsequent impact on our operating results could, among other things, negatively impact our stock price and/or jeopardize our listing on the New York Stock Exchange. Further, government efforts to stabilize the economy and stimulate consumer spending, and therefore presumably ad spending, are difficult to predict, making it difficult to estimate our future operating results. In addition, the occurrence of disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could cause us to lose our ability to broadcast our television signals or, if we were able to broadcast, our broadcast operations may shift to around-the-clock news coverage, which would cause additional loss of advertising revenues due to the suspension of advertising-supported commercial programming. Materiality of a Single Advertising Category Could Adversely Affect Our Business We derive a material portion of our ad revenue from the automotive industry. An increase or decrease in revenue from this category therefore has a disproportionate impact on our operating results. Approximately 21% and 26% of the Company's total revenue came from the automotive category in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The automotive industry is particularly affected by the ongoing economic recession and tightness in the credit markets, which has adversely affected automotive sales and auto advertising budgets in turn. If the recession persists or worsens through 2009 and beyond, our ad revenue from the auto category, and therefore our total revenue, is likely to continue to decline. The effects of government efforts to stabilize and/or revitalize the auto industry are difficult to predict, making it difficult to estimate our future operating results. Additionally, if revenue from another advertising category that constitutes a material portion of our stations' revenue in a particular period (such as retail, which comprised 6% of the Company's total revenue in 2008) were to decrease, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We Compete With Other Media Platforms For Advertising Revenue Our stations compete for advertising revenues with other television stations in their respective markets. They also compete with other advertising media, such as the Internet, local cable and satellite system operators, portable devices, newspapers, radio stations, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, yellow page directories and direct mail. Our stations are located in highly competitive markets. Accordingly, our operating results are and will continue to be dependent upon the ability of each of our stations to compete successfully with these other forms of advertising media for revenues in its respective market. Increased Competition Due to Technological Innovation May Adversely Impact Our Business Technological innovation, and the resulting proliferation of programming alternatives such as cable, satellite television, video provided by telephone company fiber lines, satellite radio, video-on-demand, pay-per-view, the Internet, home video and entertainment systems, portable entertainment systems, and the availability of television programs on the Internet and portable digital devices have fragmented television viewing audiences and subjected television broadcast stations to new types of competition. Over the past decade, the aggregate viewership of non-network programming distributed via MVPDs such as cable television and satellite systems has increased, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. Technologies that enable users to view content of their own choosing, in their own time, and to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs, portable digital devices, and the Internet, may cause changes in consumer behavior or could hinder Nielsen's ability to accurately measure our audience, both of which could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers. If these things were to occur, our operating results could be adversely affected. Other advances in technology, such as increasing use of local-cable advertising "interconnects," which allow for easier insertion of advertising on local cable systems, have also increased competition for advertisers. In addition, video compression technologies permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth on cable, satellite and other television distribution systems. These compression technologies, as well as other technological developments, are applicable to all video delivery systems, including digital over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to highly targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming on cable, satellite and other television distribution systems. We expect this ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences to increase competition both for audience and for advertising revenue. In addition, the expansion of competition due to technological innovation has increased, and may continue to increase, competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may in the future increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire programming, which will in turn impair our ability to generate revenue from the advertisers with which we seek to do business. Conversely, in the current recession, the expansion of available inventory may reduce rate realization for units of inventory sold. We May Lose Audience Share As a Result of the Transition to Digital Television The Communications Act and the FCC require television stations to transition from analog television service to digital television service. In February 2009 the deadline for the national digital transition was extended from February 17, 2009 to June 12, 2009. Despite the extension, some stations have already transitioned or will transition to digital in advance of June 12, 2009. Our Company's stations in Hawaii transitioned to digital on January 15, 2009, as part of a market-wide effort designed to facilitate an early test of the transition and this effort was done in coordination with the FCC. Also, together with the other stations in the Burlington-Plattsburgh market, WPTZ and WNNE terminated regular analog programming on February 17, 2009, but each will continue to broadcast an analog signal providing DTV transition and emergency information, as well as local news and public affairs programming until at least April 18, 2009. 20 Table of Contents After the end of the digital transition, our analog signals will no longer be available over-the-air. Estimates of the number of U.S. households that receive television exclusively by means of analog over-the-air transmissions and do not subscribe to cable or satellite services vary by source, but the FCC reported in January 2009 that all estimates indicate that less than 20 percent of all U.S. households rely exclusively on over-the-air broadcasts to receive television service. In addition to these households, many households that subscribe to cable or satellite services also have one or more television sets that rely on over-the-air transmissions.To continue to receive our stations' broadcasts after the conclusion of the digital television transition, households that rely on over-the-air transmissions will be required to purchase digital televisions, obtain digital to analog converter equipment, or subscribe to satellite or cable service. A significant percentage of households with analog over-the-air receivers may not desire or be able to afford to purchase digital televisions. The federal government has created a subsidy coupon program to help such households obtain digital converters; however, in January 2009 the subsidy program reached its funding ceiling and new applicants for the subsidy coupons are being placed on a waiting list pending the availability of additional funds for the program from either expired coupons or economic stimulus legislation. As such, the subsidy may not be available for all households with over-the-air receivers, and some households may not take advantage of the subsidy. As a result, the digital transition may cause some households to lose service from our stations. And, to the extent such households elect to subscribe to satellite or cable service, the additional channels available through those services may reduce our viewership from such households. Furthermore, while in many cases, a station's digital signal generally replicates the station's entire analog service area, in some circumstances, conversion to digital may reduce a station's geographical coverage area. We believe that digital television is important to our long-term viability and offers many advantages such as high definition video, multi-channel digital audio and multicast capability. However, we cannot predict the precise effect digital television might have on our stations' viewership and our operations. Our Inability to Secure Carriage of Our Stations By Multi-Channel Video Programming Distributors May Adversely Affect Our Business Cable operators and direct broadcast satellite systems are generally required to carry the primary signal of local commercial television stations pursuant to the FCC's "must carry" or "carry-one, carry-all" rules. However, these MVPDs are prohibited from carrying a broadcast signal without obtaining the station's consent. For each distributor, a local television broadcaster must make a choice once every three years whether to proceed under the "must carry" or "carry-one, carry-all" rules or to waive the right to mandatory but uncompensated carriage and negotiate a grant of retransmission consent to permit the system to carry the station's signal, in most cases in exchange for some form of consideration from the system operator. In 2008, we elected retransmission consent for most of our stations for the three-year period commencing on January 1, 2009. At present, we have retransmission consent agreements with the majority of operators for the period January 1, 2009, to at least December 31, 2011. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not renewed, or if our broadcast signal is distributed on less favorable terms, our ability to distribute our programming could be adversely affected. In many instances, the negotiation of these agreements involves the payment of compensation to us by the MVPDs as consideration. If we are unable to satisfactorily conclude those negotiations our ability to grow our retransmission consent revenue will be adversely affected. Prior to the end of the digital television transition, the FCC's "must carry" and "carry-one, carry-all" rules generally require carriage of only each local station's analog signal. At the end of the transition, cable operators and satellite systems generally will be required to retransmit a single programming stream transmitted by each local station's digital signal. Cable operators and satellite systems are not required to carry both a station's analog signal and digital signal during the transition period. At present, we have retransmission consent agreements with a number of cable systems 21 Table of Contents operators and satellite providers that require carriage of the analog and certain digital signals of our stations. Our Business Is Seasonal and Cyclical and Some Years and Quarters Therefore May Be Less Profitable Than Others Our business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on people's viewing habits. The advertising revenue of our stations is generally highest in the second and fourth quarters of each year, due in part to increases in consumer advertising in the spring and retail advertising in the period leading up to and including the holiday season. Additionally, advertising revenue is cyclical, benefiting in even-numbered years from advertising placed by candidates for political offices and issue-oriented advertising, and demand for advertising time in Olympic broadcasts. While political and Olympic advertising cycles have been a normal pattern for our industry for decades, the variability has become more pronounced in recent years as these respective categories of revenue have grown significantly in size. The seasonality and cyclicality inherent in our business make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter. The Television Industry Is Highly Competitive and Our Competitors May Have Greater Resources Than We Do The television broadcast industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are owned and operated by large national or regional companies that may have greater resources, including financial resources, than we have. Competition in the television industry takes place on several levels: competition for audience, competition for programming and competition for advertisers. Our stations may not be able to maintain or increase their current audience share or revenue share. To the extent that certain of our competitors have, or may in the future obtain, greater resources than we have, we may not be able to successfully compete with them. We Have a Controlling Stockholder Hearst, through its beneficial ownership of our Series A and Series B Common Stock, has voting control of our company. Through its beneficial ownership of 100% of our Series B Common Stock, Hearst also is entitled to elect as a class all but two members of our Board of Directors (currently, 11 of our 13 Board seats). As a result, Hearst is able to control substantially all actions to be taken by our stockholders, and also is able to maintain control over our operations and business. Further, as of July 1, 2008, we and our consolidated subsidiaries became a member, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, of the affiliated group of corporations of which Hearst is the common parent. Consequently, we began filing federal and certain state tax returns on a consolidated basis with Hearst as of July 1, 2008. Hearst's control, as well as certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and of Delaware law, may make us a less attractive target for a takeover than we otherwise might be, or render more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, tender offer or other transaction involving an actual or potential change of control. Hearst's voting control also prevents other stockholders from exercising significant influence over our business decisions. It is possible that Hearst's voting decisions may differ from other stockholders' desires. The Interests and Assets of Our Controlling Stockholder May Adversely Impact Our Ability to Make Certain Acquisitions The interests of Hearst, which owns or has significant investments in other businesses, including cable television networks, newspapers, magazines and electronic media, may from time to time be competitive with, or otherwise diverge from, our interests, particularly with respect to new business opportunities and future acquisitions. We and Hearst have agreed that, without the prior written 22 Table of Contents consent of the other, neither we nor they will make any acquisition or purchase any assets if such an acquisition or purchase by one party would require the other party to divest or otherwise dispose of any of its assets because of regulatory or other legal prohibitions. Given the newspaper and other media interests held by Hearst, we are precluded from acquiring television stations in various markets in the United States. While divestiture of a prohibited interest could permit such acquisitions, such a divestiture may not occur or may otherwise adversely impact potential acquisitions. Additionally, Hearst is not precluded from purchasing television stations, newspapers or other assets in other markets. If Hearst were to make such purchases, the FCC rules would preclude us from owning television stations in certain of those markets in the future. We May Encounter Conflicts of Interest with Our Controlling Stockholder We and Hearst also have ongoing relationships that may create situations where the interests of the two parties could conflict. For example, we and Hearst are parties to a series of agreements with each other, including •a Lease Agreement (whereby we lease one floor of the Hearst Tower in Manhattan for our corporate offices); •a Management Agreement (whereby we provide certain management services, such as sales, news, programming and financial and accounting management services with respect to certain Hearst-owned or managed television and radio stations); •an Option Agreement (whereby Hearst has granted us an option to acquire two television stations it owns (KCWE and WMOR), as well as a right of first refusal with respect to a prospective purchaser if Hearst proposes to sell WPBF); •a Studio Lease Agreement (whereby Hearst leases space from us for Hearst's radio broadcast stations); •a Name License Agreement (whereby Hearst permits us to use the Hearst name in connection with our name and operation of our business); •a Tax Sharing Agreement (whereby the method of determining the amounts owed and timing of payments among other items resulting from the July 1, 2008 tax consolidation with Hearst is confirmed, as well as tax preparation and related services by Hearst to the Company); and •a Services Agreement (whereby Hearst provides us certain administrative services, such as accounting, financial, legal, tax, insurance, data processing and employee benefits). It is possible that we and Hearst may enter into additional related party transactions and/or agreements in the future. Because we and Hearst are affiliates, it is possible that our interests concerning these transactions and/or agreements may from time to time conflict and that more favorable terms than those we have negotiated with Hearst may be available from third parties. Changes in FCC Regulations and Enforcement Policies May Adversely Affect Our Business As discussed more fully in Item 1 "Business; Federal Regulation of Television Broadcasting", our broadcast operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. If we do not comply with these regulations, in particular the specific regulations discussed below, or if the FCC adopts a rigorous enforcement policy concerning them, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Ownership Rules. We must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership of our broadcast stations, which restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and, in certain circumstances, could require us to divest some stations. In general, the FCC's ownership rules limit the number of television and radio stations that we can own in a market, the number of television stations 23 Table of Contents we can own nationwide, and prohibit ownership of stations in markets where Hearst has interests in newspapers. Indecency Rules. Federal law and the FCC's rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time, and the broadcast of indecent or profane material during the period from 6 a.m. through 10 p.m. In recent years, the FCC has vigorously enforced its indecency prohibition, and in 2006, legislation was enacted that raised the maximum monetary penalty for the broadcast of obscene, indecent, or profane language to $325,000 for each "violation," with a cap of $3 million for any "single act." The determination of whether content is indecent or profane is inherently subjective, creates uncertainty as to our ability to comply with the rules (in particular during live programming), and impacts our programming decisions. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Fines and Penalties. In recent years, the FCC has also vigorously enforced a number of other rules, typically in connection with license renewals. For example, in recent years, the FCC has issued fines and sanctions for violations of its equal employment opportunity rules, public inspection file rules, children's programming rules, commercial time limits rules, sponsorship identification rules, closed captioning rules, station-conducted contest rules, and emergency alert system rules. On February 19, 2008, the FCC fined certain ABC stations, including four of our ABC-affiliated stations (KETV, KOCO, WAPT and WISN), each in the amount of $27,500 for the broadcast of allegedly indecent material during a 2003 episode of NYPD Blue. The ABC Network and its affiliate, including our affected stations, have appealed the FCC's decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and oral argument was held on February 5, 2009. In June 2008, the FCC fined WMUR-TV $8,000 in connection with children's programming matters. Over the past few years, the Company has responded to other FCC inquiries concerning alleged rule violations. Those inquires remain pending. Possible Acquisitions, Divestitures or Other Strategic Initiatives May Adversely Impact Our Business Our management is evaluating, and will continue to evaluate, the nature and scope of our operations and various short-term and long-term strategic considerations. These may include acquisitions or divestitures of, or strategic alliances, joint ventures, mergers or integration or consolidation with, television stations or other businesses, including digital media businesses, as well as discussions with third parties regarding any of these considerations. In the alternative, our management may decide from time to time that such initiatives are not appropriate. There are uncertainties and risks relating to each of these strategic initiatives. For example, acquisition opportunities have become more limited as a consequence of the consolidation of ownership in the television broadcast industry. Also, prospective competitors may have greater financial resources than we have. Future acquisitions may not be available on attractive terms, or at all. In addition, due to the tightening of the credit markets as a result of the ongoing economic recession, financing has become more difficult to obtain, which could limit our ability to make future acquisitions. Also, if we do make acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired stations or businesses. With respect to divestitures, we may experience varying success in making such divestitures on favorable terms, if at all, or in reducing fixed costs or transferring liabilities previously associated with the divested television stations or businesses. In addition, any such acquisitions or divestitures may be subject to FCC approval and FCC rules and regulations. Finally, strategic minority investments we choose to make in digital media projects may ultimately prove unprofitable. Any of these efforts would require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, or, conversely, if we do not realize such benefits or synergies because we chose not to pursue any such transaction, there may be an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 24 Table of Contents We Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill and FCC Licenses At December 31, 2008, approximately 82% of our total assets consisted of goodwill and intangible assets. We test our goodwill and intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of every year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." If the fair value of a reporting unit or an intangible asset is revised downward below its net carrying value, an impairment under SFAS 142 could result and a non-cash charge could be required. This could materially affect our reported net earnings and our balance sheet. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded an impairment of our intangible assets of $926.1 million. To estimate the fair value of our reporting unit, we utilize a discounted cash flow model. Other valuation methods, such as a market approach utilizing market multiples, are used to corroborate the discounted cash flow analysis performed at the reporting unit. We also consider our market capitalization when estimating the fair value of our reporting unit. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company experienced a decline in its market capitalization. As of December 31, 2008, our market capitalization was less than our book value and it remains less than book value as of the date of this filing. While we have concluded that our goodwill balance continues to be recoverable, there can be no assurance that we will not need to record impairments of our goodwill or additional impairments to our intangible assets in the future. Limitations on Our Liquidity and Ability to Raise Capital May Adversely Affect Us Historically, our primary sources of liquidity have been cash on hand, cash flow from operations, our bank credit facilities, and issuances of unsecured debt instruments and equity securities in capital markets transactions. However, liquidity in the current capital markets has been severely constrained since the beginning of the recession and resulting credit crisis, increasing the cost and reducing the availability of new funds. Our $500 million revolving credit facility is scheduled to mature in April 2010. We expect that the terms of any new financing we obtain in this environment are likely to be more restrictive than previous financings and may require that we provide structural enhancements such as subsidiary guarantees and, in some cases, security such as liens or mortgages. Continued disruption in the global credit markets or further deterioration in those markets may have a material adverse effect on our ability to repay or refinance our borrowings. Although we expect our sources of capital should be sufficient to meet our near term liquidity needs, there can be no assurance that our liquidity requirements will be satisfied. Covenants in Our Indebtedness Could Limit Our Flexibility and Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition Pursuant to our revolving credit facility and private placement debt agreements we must maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios and a minimum consolidated net worth. These covenants must be maintained throughout the term of the respective financings and, if breached, could result in an acceleration of our debt if a waiver or modification is not agreed upon with the requisite percentage of the unsecured lending group and the holders of our private placement debt. In addition, our publicly held debt securities also contain a covenant restricting secured indebtedness. If this covenant is breached, it could result in acceleration of our publicly held debt if a waiver or modification is not agreed upon with the requisite percentage of the holders. Each of our debt instruments contains cross-default provisions which would allow the holders and lenders thereof to declare an event of default and accelerate our indebtedness to them if we fail to pay amounts due in respect of our other indebtedness in excess of specified thresholds. In addition, our bank facilities and private placement debt agreements provide that the lenders and noteholders may declare an event of default and accelerate our indebtedness to them if there is a default under our other indebtedness in excess of specified thresholds and the holders of the other indebtedness are permitted to accelerate the other indebtedness. The indentures governing our public debt securities 25 Table of Contents contain a cross-acceleration provision entitling the bondholders to accelerate their debt if other debt of ours meeting specified thresholds is accelerated. While we are currently in compliance with our covenants, there can be no assurance that we will be able to stay in compliance if our financial performance declines and our credit statistics (including our leverage ratio) deteriorate. In addition, further impairment charges could negatively impact our net worth covenant. In addition, we may be forced to take actions that will enable us to meet our covenants in the near term but may adversely affect our earnings in the longer term. We Could Suffer Adverse Consequences If our Credit Ratings Were Downgraded Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. During December 2008, our unsecured corporate credit ratings were reaffirmed at an investment grade level by all three major national credit rating agencies; however, one of the agencies has indicated a negative outlook. In addition, all three agencies have expressed concerns about our sector in the current economic environment and indicated that further rating actions in the U.S. broadcasting industry are likely. Our credit statistics could worsen during 2009 as a result of the ongoing economic recession, putting us at risk of a ratings downgrade. This, together with the current dislocation in the capital markets in general, may increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets in the future. If we were to be downgraded, the lenders under our existing bank credit facilities may not extend such credit facilities after their expiration and our access to the capital markets could be further limited. Such actions would likely further increase our borrowing costs and have an adverse impact on our financial statements. The Loss of Key Personnel Could Disrupt Our Management or Operations and Adversely Affect Our Business Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our chief executive officer and other key employees. We believe that the rare combination of skills and years of media experience possessed by our executive officers would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, our stations employ several on-air personnel, including anchors and reporters, with significant loyal audiences. Our failure to retain these personnel could adversely affect our operating results. Strikes and Other Union Activity By Our Employees Could Adversely Affect Our Business Certain employees, such as on-air talent and engineers, at some of our stations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If we are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements, or significant labor disputes could adversely affect our business by disrupting our ability to operate our affected stations. Our Share Repurchase Program and Hearst's Share Purchase Program May Affect the Market Price of Our Series A Common Stock. We have a share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors, pursuant to which we may repurchase up to $300 million of our Series A Common Stock from time to time, in the open market or in private transactions, subject to market conditions. In addition, since March 1998 Hearst's Board of Directors has authorized various share purchase programs pursuant to which Hearst or its subsidiaries have purchased on the open market or through private transactions approximately 35.5 million shares of our Series A Common Stock. Such repurchases and purchases, or the absence thereof, may increase or decrease the market price of our Series A Common Stock. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 