ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in interest rates and the securities markets. A significant portion of our fees is based on the market value of the assets we process. Accordingly, our operating results are subject to fluctuations in interest rates and securities markets as these fluctuations affect the market value of assets processed. Our net interest income is primarily driven by the spread between earnings on our investments and loan portfolios relative to our cost of funds. The relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates, referred to as the shape of the yield curve, affects the market value of, and the earnings produced by, our investment and loan portfolios, and thus could impact our net interest income. In addition, narrower investment portfolio reinvestment and purchase spreads have impacted, and could potentially continue to impact, our net interest income. 17 Volatility in the equity markets can have a material effect on our asset-based fees. While reductions in asset servicing fees may be offset by increases in other sources of revenue, a sustained downward movement of the broad equity markets will likely have an adverse impact on our earnings. Our growth depends in part on the ability of our clients to generate fund flows by selling their investment products to new and existing investors. Fluctuations in interest rates or the securities markets can lead to investors seeking alternatives to the investment offerings of our clients, which could result in a lesser amount of assets processed and correspondingly lower fees. For example, if the value of equity or fixed income assets held by our clients were to increase or decrease by 10% for a sustained period of time, we estimate currently that this market movement, by itself, would cause a corresponding change of less than 5% in our earnings per share. We may not consummate our merger with State Street Corporation. Consummation of the transaction contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including stockholder and regulatory approval. Failure to complete the merger could have a material adverse impact on our ability to sell our services to new clients. A material portion of our revenue is derived from our relationship with Barclays Global Investors, N.A. (‘BGI’) and related entities. As a result of our ongoing relationship with BGI’s iShares and Master Investment Portfolios, our assumption of the operations of the U.S. asset administration unit of BGI in 2001 and our servicing assets for Barclays Global Investors Canada, Ltd., BGI accounted for approximately 18%, 18% and 17% of our net operating revenue for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. During 2006, we renewed our U.S. asset administration outsourcing agreement and our iShares and Master Investment Portfolio custody and fund accounting agreements with BGI, and we expect that BGI will continue to account for a significant portion of our net operating revenue. We provide services to BGI under long-term contracts that may be terminated before the expiration of the contracts under certain circumstances that we have described in filings with the SEC as described below. While we believe that our relationship with BGI is excellent, the loss of BGI’s business would cause our net operating revenue to decline significantly and would have an adverse effect on our quarterly and annual results. The outsourcing agreement was renewed pursuant to an amendment (the ‘Amendment’) to the Custodial, Fund Accounting and Services Agreement between the Bank and BGI dated May 1, 2001 (the ‘Custodial Agreement’). Under the terms of the Amendment, the Custodial Agreement is extended through April 30, 2013. As provided in the Amendment, BGI may terminate the Custodial Agreement upon sixty days prior written notice: (i) as to any underlying account if BGI fails to receive any consent required by law for the Bank to act as servicing agent for such account; (ii) as to any underlying account if the continued provision of services by the Bank to such account would be inconsistent with BGI’s fiduciary duties under applicable law; or (iii) as to the entire Custodial Agreement in the event a conservator or receiver is appointed for the Bank under applicable federal law. In addition, BGI may terminate the Custodial Agreement prior to April 30, 2013 if the Bank fails to meet a certain number of service level commitments for four consecutive months in any rolling twelve-month period or if the Bank materially breaches a material provision of the Custodial Agreement, in both cases subject to customary notice and opportunity to cure provisions. Also, under the terms of the Amendment, the parties have agreed to assess the fee schedule and status of each party and of the industry 90 days prior to November 1, 2009 and to negotiate in good faith any appropriate amendments to the fee schedule arising from that assessment. If the parties are unable to agree on an amended fee schedule by November 1, 2009, BGI may terminate the Custodial Agreement. 18 The Amendment also provides that the Bank will continue to service BGI for up to two years, or longer under certain circumstances, after expiration or termination by BGI of the Custodial Agreement. We may incur losses due to operational errors. The services that we provide require complex processes and interaction with numerous third parties. While we maintain sophisticated computer systems and a comprehensive system of internal controls, and our operational history has been excellent, from time to time we may make operational errors for which we are responsible to our clients. In addition, even though we maintain appropriate errors and omissions and other insurance policies, an operational error could result in a significant liability to us and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face significant competition from other financial services companies, which could negatively affect our operating results. We are part of an extremely competitive asset servicing industry. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. These greater resources could, for example, allow our competitors to develop technology superior to our own. In addition, we face the risk that large mutual fund complexes may build in-house asset servicing capabilities and no longer outsource these services to us. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, which could result in a loss of existing clients or difficulty in gaining new clients. We may incur significant costs defending legal claims. We have been named in lawsuits in U.S. District Court in Massachusetts alleging, among other things, violations of securities laws. While we believe these claims are without merit, we cannot be sure that we will prevail in the defense of these claims. We are also party to other litigation and we may become subject to other legal claims in the future. Litigation is costly and could divert the attention of management. For a more detailed discussion of our ongoing lawsuits, please see Item 3. Legal Proceedings, in Part I of this report. The failure to properly manage our growth could adversely affect the quality of our services and result in the loss of clients. We have experienced a period of rapid growth that has required the dedication of significant management and other resources. Continued growth could place a strain on our management and other resources. To manage future growth effectively, we must continue to invest in our operational, financial and other internal systems, and our human resources, which could affect our profitability. We must hire and retain skilled personnel in order to succeed. Qualified personnel, in particular managers and other senior personnel, are in great demand throughout the financial services industry. As a result, we could find it increasingly difficult to continue to attract and retain sufficient numbers of these highly skilled employees, which could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. In addition, uncertainty regarding integration in our merger with State Street Corporation could cause key employees to seek employment elsewhere. We may not reap all or any of the expected benefits of our recent increased spending. To position us for future growth, we have accelerated some disciplined investments during 2006. We believe our investments in personnel, technology and office space are necessary to support our future growth in areas such as Europe, technology, alternative investments, middle office outsourcing and fund 19 services. While these investments have and will continue to decrease our short-term operating margins, we believe they are necessary to build the foundation for future growth. However, we may not reap any or all of the expected benefits of our recent investments. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology. Our proprietary technology is important to our business. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties to protect our proprietary technology, all of which offer only limited protection. These intellectual property rights may be invalidated or our competitors may develop similar technology independently. Legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights may be unsuccessful and could also be expensive and divert management’s attention. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and annually for several reasons, including: · The timing of commencement or termination of client engagements; · Changes in interest rates, the relationship between different interest rates or equity values; · The rate of net inflows and outflows of investor funds in the investment vehicles offered by our clients; and · The timing and magnitude of share repurchases under our share repurchase plan. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation and rent, are relatively fixed. As a result, any shortfall in revenue relative to our expectations could significantly affect our operating results. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulations that impose complex restraints on our business. Federal and state laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions and their parent companies apply to us. Our primary regulators are the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (‘FRB’), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (‘FDIC’), the Office of the Commissioner of Banks of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (‘NASD’), the State of Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration (‘BISHCA’), the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada (‘OSFI’), the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority (‘IFSRA’), the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority (‘CIMA’), the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom (‘FSA’) and the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg (‘CSSF’). Virtually all aspects of our operations are subject to specific requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight including the following: · The FRB and the FDIC maintain capital requirements that we must meet. Failure to meet those requirements could lead to severe regulatory action or even receivership. We are currently considered to be “well-capitalized”; · Under Massachusetts law, the Bank may be restricted in its ability to pay dividends to Investors Financial, which may in turn restrict our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; · The FRB and the FDIC are empowered to assess monetary penalties against, and to order termination of activities by, companies or individuals who violate the law; · The NASD maintains certain regulatory requirements that our securities broker affiliate, Investors Securities Services, LLC, must meet. Failure to meet those requirements could lead to severe regulatory action; 20 · BISHCA maintains certain regulatory requirements that our insurance captive affiliate, Investors Vermont Insurance Company, must meet. Failure to meet those requirements could lead to regulatory action; and · Our international operations are subject to regulatory oversight by regulators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the OSFI, the IFSRA, the CIMA, the FSA and the CSSF. Failure to comply with applicable international regulatory requirements could result in regulatory action and impact our ability to provide services in those jurisdictions. Banking law restricts our ability to own the stock of certain companies and also makes it more difficult for us to be acquired. Also, we have not elected financial holding company status under the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to other organizations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 