RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider these risk factors as each of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Pharmacyclics All of our product candidates are in development, and we cannot be certain that any of our products under development will be commercialized. To be profitable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our products under development. The time frame necessary to achieve these goals for any individual product is long and uncertain. Before we can sell any of our products under development, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and regulatory authorities in foreign markets through the submission of preclinical (animal) studies and clinical (human) trials that each product is safe and effective for human use for each targeted disease. We have conducted and plan to continue to conduct extensive and costly clinical trials to assess the safety and effectiveness of our potential products. We cannot be certain that we will be permitted to begin or continue our planned clinical trials for our potential products, or if permitted, that our potential products will prove to be safe and produce their intended effects. The completion rate of our clinical trials depends upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment, the adequacy of patient follow-up and the completion of required clinical evaluations. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, competing clinical trials and new drugs or procedures used for the conditions we are investigating. Other companies are conducting clinical trials and have announced plans for future trials that are seeking or are likely to seek patients with the same diseases that we are studying. We may fail to obtain adequate levels of patient enrollment in our clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs, delays or termination of clinical trials, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Many factors can affect the adequacy of patient follow-up and completion of required clinical evaluations, including failure of patients to return for scheduled visits or failure of clinical sites to complete necessary documentation. Delays in or failure to obtain required clinical follow-up and completion of clinical evaluations could also have a material adverse effect on the timing and outcome of our clinical trials and product approvals. Additionally, demands on our clinical staff have been increasing and we expect they will continue to increase due to our monitoring of additional clinical trials. We may fail to effectively oversee and monitor these many simultaneous clinical trials, which would result in increased costs or delays of our clinical trials and negatively impact our ability to collect complete and audited data from clinical sites participating in our Phase 3 SMART trial. Even if these clinical trials are completed and audited data is collected, we may fail to complete and submit a new drug application for many reasons, including, as was the case with our first Phase 3 trial of Xcytrin, failure to meet our primary endpoints. We have received a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) from the FDA for our Phase 3 SMART trial. In the SPA process, the FDA reviewed the design, size and planned analysis of the SMART trial and provided comments regarding the trial's adequacy to form a basis for approval if the trial is successful in meeting its predetermined objectives. The FDA's written agreement is binding on its review decision, except in limited circumstances, such as when a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or effectiveness of a product candidate is identified after the Phase 3 clinical trial is commenced. Even if we file a new drug application based on data from the SMART trial, there is no guarantee that the application will be approved. Any change to the protocol for the SMART trial included in the SPA would require prior FDA approval, which could delay our ability to implement such change. Data already obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials of our products under development do not necessarily predict the results that will be obtained from later preclinical studies and clinical trials. Moreover, data from clinical trials we are conducting are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a product under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the potential product and would materially harm our business. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate the sufficient levels of safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approval or may not result in marketable products. In this regard, our initial Phase 3 trial of Xcytrin failed to meet its co-primary endpoints even though our Phase 1b/2 trial showed a benefit for treated patients. The outcome of the current Phase 3 SMART trial may delay or prevent the regulatory approval of Xcytrin as a treatment for brain metastases in patients with lung cancer and may result in material harm to our business. The outcomes of our other ongoing Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials with Xcytrin for additional cancer indications may not provide sufficient data supporting advancement of the development of Xcytrin for these additional cancer indications and also may result in material harm to our business. We have a history of operating losses and we expect to continue to have losses in the future. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception in 1991 and, as of June 30, 2005, had an accumulated deficit of approximately $246.8 million. We expect to continue to incur substantial additional operating losses until such time, if ever, as the commercialization of our products generates sufficient revenues to cover our expenses. Our achieving profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to successfully complete the development of our products, and to obtain required regulatory approvals and to successfully manufacture and market our proposed products. Our lead product, Xcytrin, may receive regulatory approval on a delayed basis or may not receive such clearance at all, which would have a material impact on our ability to become profitable. To date, we have not generated revenue from the commercial sale of our products. Failure to obtain product approvals or comply with ongoing governmental regulations could adversely affect our business. The manufacture and marketing of our products and our research and development activities are subject to extensive regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous government authorities in the United States and abroad. Before receiving FDA approval to market a product, we will have to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that the product is safe and effective for the patient population and for the diseases that will be treated. Clinical trials, and the manufacturing and marketing of products, are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacture, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. As a result, clinical trials and regulatory approval can take a number of years to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Data from our completed initial Phase 3 clinical trial of Xcytrin were not sufficient to obtain regulatory approval. Any approval of Xcytrin will require at least one additional clinical trial, including the Phase 3 trial we are currently conducting. Conducting additional trials will cause significant delays in approval and consume additional resources and may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections based upon additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. The fast-track designation that we have received for our Phase 3 trial of Xcytrin may not actually lead to a faster development, regulatory review, or approval process. We may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. We may be unable to obtain requisite approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities and even if obtained, such approvals may not be received on a timely basis, or they may not cover the clinical uses that we specify. Furthermore, regulatory approval may entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. The manufacture and marketing of drugs are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory review and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Any of the following events, if they were to occur, could delay or preclude us from further developing, marketing or realizing full commercial use of our products, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: failure to obtain and thereafter maintain requisite governmental approvals; failure to obtain approvals for specific indications of our products under development; or identification of serious and unanticipated adverse side effects in our products under development. Any regulatory approval that we receive for a product candidate may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. In addition, if the FDA and/or foreign regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion of the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We and the manufacturers of our product candidates must also comply with the applicable FDA Good Manufacturing Practice ("GMP") regulations, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed before they can be used in commercial manufacturing of our products. We or our present or future suppliers may be unable to comply with the applicable GMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. Failure of our suppliers to follow current Good Manufacturing Practice or other regulatory requirements may lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial or clinical use and could subject us to fines, injunctions and civil penalties. We also may be subject to delays in commercializing our products for Antrin Angiophototherapy due to delays in approvals of the third-party light sources required for this product. We will need substantial additional financing and we may have difficulty raising needed capital in the future. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to complete the research, development and clinical testing of our products. We will expend additional funds for these purposes, to establish additional clinical and commercial-scale manufacturing arrangements and to provide for the marketing and distribution of our products. Specifically, we will require additional funds to commercialize our product. Additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are unavailable on a timely basis from operations or additional sources of financing, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs through at least fiscal year 2006. We may, however, choose to raise additional funds before then. Our actual capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: continued progress of our research and development programs; our ability to establish collaborative arrangements and maintain existing ones; progress with preclinical studies and clinical trials; the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approval; the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; the amount and timing of capital equipment purchases; competing technological and market developments; and our ability to market and distribute our products and establish new licensing arrangements. We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources that may be dilutive to existing stockholders or subject us to restrictive covenants. In addition, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners or other sources, such arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products under development that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. Acceptance of our products in the marketplace is uncertain, and failure to achieve market acceptance will harm our business. Even if approved for marketing, our products may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: the receipt of regulatory approvals for the indications that we are studying; the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products and their potential advantages over existing therapeutic products; marketing and distribution support; the introduction, market penetration and pricing strategies of competing and future products; and coverage and reimbursement policies of governmental and other third-party payors such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators. Physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, purchase, utilize or recommend any of our products. We may fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third-party patents. We face risks and uncertainties related to our intellectual property rights. For example: we may be unable to obtain or maintain patent or other intellectual property protection for any products or processes that we may develop; third parties may obtain patents covering the manufacture, use or sale of these products, which may prevent us from commercializing any of our products under development globally or in certain regions; and any future patents that we may obtain may not prevent other companies from competing with us by designing their products or conducting their activities so as to avoid the coverage of our patents. A number of third-party patent applications have been published, and some have issued, relating to expanded porphyrin chemistries. It is likely that competitors and other third parties have and will continue to file applications for and receive patents relating to similar or even the same compositions, methods or designs as those of our products. If any third-party patent claims are asserted against our products and are upheld as valid and infringed by our products, we could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in such patents and therefore from developing or commercializing our products, require license(s) or have to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. Such licenses may not be available or, if available, may not be on terms acceptable to us. Alternatively, we may be unsuccessful in any attempt to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. Litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents, or to protect our trade secrets, and could result in substantial cost to the company and diversion of our efforts. We are aware of several U.S. patents owned or licensed by Schering AG that relate to pharmaceutical formulations and methods for enhancing magnetic resonance imaging. Even though we have obtained the opinion of outside patent counsel that our cancer treatment compounds do not infringe any valid, unexpired claims of such patents, Schering AG may still choose to assert one or more of those patents. If any of our products were legally determined to be infringing a valid and enforceable claim of any of Schering AG's patents, our business could be materially adversely affected. Further, any allegation by Schering AG that we infringed their patents would likely result in significant legal costs and require the diversion of substantial management resources. We are aware that Schering AG has asserted patent rights against at least one other company in the contrast agent imaging market and that a number of companies have entered into licensing arrangements with Schering AG with respect to one or more of such patents. We cannot be certain that we would be successful in defending a lawsuit or able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms from Schering AG, if required. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary rights and information, including the use of confidentiality and other agreements with our employees and consultants, and in our academic and commercial relationships, these steps may be inadequate, these agreements may be violated, or there may be no adequate remedy available for a violation. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in unpatented proprietary technology. We rely heavily on third parties for product and clinical development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of our products. We currently depend heavily and will depend heavily in the future on third parties for support in product development, clinical development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of our products. The termination of a significant number of our existing collaborative arrangements, or our inability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete clinical development of our products. We rely on contract clinical research organizations, or CROs, for various aspects of our clinical development activities including clinical trial monitoring, data collection and data management. As a result, we have had and continue to have less control over the conduct of clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Although we rely on CROs to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Any failure of such CROs to successfully accomplish clinical trial monitoring, data collection and data management and the other services they provide for us in a timely manner and in compliance with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete clinical development of our products and obtain regulatory approval. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a CRO may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternate service provider. However, making such changes may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. We have no expertise in the development of light sources and associated light delivery devices required for our Antrin Angiophototherapy product under development. Successful development, manufacturing, approval and distribution of this product will require third-party participation for the required light sources, associated light delivery devices and other equipment. Failure to develop such relationships may require us to develop additional supply sources that may require additional clinical trials and regulatory approvals and could materially delay commercialization of our Antrin product under development. We may be unable to establish or maintain relationships with other supply sources on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all, or alternatively, the enabling devices may not receive regulatory approval. We lack the resources, capability and experience necessary to manufacture pharmaceuticals and thus rely heavily upon contract manufacturers. We have no manufacturing facilities and we currently rely on third parties for manufacturing and storage activities related to all of our products in development. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: delays in scale-up to quantities needed for multiple clinical trials, or failure to manufacture such quantities to our specifications, or deliver such quantities on the dates we require, could cause delay or suspension of clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products in development; there is no guarantee that the supply of clinical materials can be maintained during the clinical development of our product candidates; our current and future manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding regulatory agencies for compliance with strictly enforced current Good Manufacturing Practice and similar foreign standards. Failure to pass these inspections could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our products to support our operations; if we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors, there is no guarantee that we will be able to locate a suitable replacement contractor. The FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve material manufactured by these contractors prior to our use. This would require new testing and compliance inspections. The new manufacturers would have to practice substantially equivalent processes for the production of our products; our current manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand; and any disruption of the ability of our manufacturing contractors to supply necessary quantities of our products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to support our operations. Any of these factors could delay clinical trials or commercialization of our products under development and entail higher costs. We lack marketing and sales experience. We currently have limited marketing, sales and distribution experience. We must develop a sales force with technical expertise. We have no experience in developing, training or managing a sales force. We will incur substantial additional expenses in developing, training and managing such an organization. We may be unable to build such a sales force, the cost of establishing such a sales force may exceed any product revenues, or our direct marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. In addition, we compete with many other companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against those of such other companies. For some market opportunities, we may need to enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the commercial success of our products. To the extent we enter into co-promotion or other licensing agreements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful. If we lose or are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, then we may not be able to develop our products or processes. We are highly dependent on qualified scientific and management personnel, and we face intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel. If we lose an executive officer, a manager of one of our programs, or a significant number of any of our staff or are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, then our ability to develop and commercialize our products and processes may be adversely affected or prevented. Our business is subject to risks associated with international operations and collaborations. The laws of foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In countries where we do not have and/or have not applied for patents on our products, we will be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the United States where we acquire patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our patented technology. Until we or our licensees obtain the required regulatory approvals for pharmaceuticals in any specific foreign country, we or our licensees will be unable to sell these products in that country. International regulatory authorities have imposed numerous and varying regulatory requirements and the approval procedures can involve additional testing. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by any other regulatory authority. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain potential drugs, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Our operations may be impaired unless we can successfully manage our growth. We expect to continue to expand our research and development, product development, sales and marketing and administrative operations. This expansion may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage growth, we will be required to improve existing, and implement additional, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and hire, train and manage additional employees. We cannot assure you that (i) our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our anticipated growth, (ii) management will be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel or (iii) management will be able to successfully identify, manage and exploit existing and potential market opportunities. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our research and development and commercialization goals. We may need to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy new reporting requirements. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules, including pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with Section 404 and other requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources. We may need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy new reporting requirements. While we have been able to complete a favorable assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2005, there is no assurance that future assessments of the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting will be favorable. If we are unable to obtain future unqualified reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, coverage and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices, we cannot provide any assurance that governmental authorities will find that our business practices comply with current or future administrative or judicial interpretations of potentially applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws and regulations we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. Our facility in California is located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect results. Important documents and records, such as hard copies of our laboratory books and records for our drug candidates and compounds, are located in our corporate headquarters at a single location in Sunnyvale, California, which is near active earthquake zones. We do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption in the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, drought or flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems. In addition, California from time to time has experienced shortages of water, electric power and natural gas. Future shortages and conservation measures could disrupt our operations and cause expense, thus adversely affecting our business and financial results. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. In addition, provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law also restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our board of directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing stockholder value. However, these prohibitions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Risks Related to Our Industry We face rapid technological change and intense competition. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Therapies designed by other companies to treat the conditions that are the focus of our products are currently in clinical trials. Developments by others may render our products under development or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with technological developments or other market factors. Technological competition in the industry from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities than we do, as well as substantially more marketing, sales, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase such competitors' financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources. In addition, we may experience competition from companies that have acquired or may acquire technology from universities and other research institutions. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions that compete with our products. We are engaged in the development of novel therapeutic technologies. As a result, our resources are limited and we may experience technical challenges inherent in such novel technologies. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing similar therapeutic effects than our products. Our competitors may develop products that are safer, more effective or less costly than our products and, therefore, present a serious competitive threat to our product offerings. Our competitors may price their products below ours, may receive better reimbursement or may have products that are more cost effective than ours. The widespread acceptance of therapies that are alternatives to ours may limit market acceptance of our products even if commercialized. The diseases for which we are developing our therapeutic products can also be treated, in the case of cancer, by surgery, radiation, biologics and chemotherapy, and in the case of atherosclerosis, by surgery, angioplasty, drug therapy and the use of devices to maintain and open blood vessels. These treatments are widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. The established use of these competitive products may limit the potential for our products to receive widespread acceptance if commercialized. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including ours, have historically been highly volatile. Our stock, like that of many other companies, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: the progress and results of our preclinical testing and clinical trials; quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; the development of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us, our competitors or others; changes in governmental regulation; developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us, our competitors or others; developments and/or announcements by us, our competitors or others; litigation; public concern as to the safety of products developed by us, our competitors or others; departure of key personnel; ability to manufacture our products to commercial standards; changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems and the coverage and reimbursement policies of governmental and other third-party payors; our ability to successfully commercialize our products if they are approved; comments by securities analysts; and general market conditions in our industry. In addition, if any of the risks described in this section entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Operating Results" actually occur, there could be a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Current health care laws and regulations and future legislative or regulatory changes to the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners and the availability of capital. Federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact legislation that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system and, in particular, that are intended to contain or reduce the costs of medical products and services. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products are prescribed and purchased and will impact reimbursement for our products, which could result in a reduction in demand for our products. The MMA established a new reimbursement methodology for certain drugs furnished in hospital outpatient departments and physicians' offices which is based on the average sales price, or ASP, of the product. Application of the ASP reimbursement methodology has resulted in a decrease in the reimbursement levels for certain oncology drugs furnished in hospital outpatient departments and physicians' offices in 2005 As implemented in a recent rule establishing an MMA-mandated competitive bidding program, or CAP, physicians who administer drugs in their offices will be offered an option to acquire drugs covered under the Medicare Part B benefit from vendors who are selected in a competitive bidding process. Winning vendors would be selected based on criteria that include their bid price. The Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recently delayed implementation of the CAP program until at least July 2006. These new reimbursement measures could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. The MMA also established a new Part D prescription drug benefit, which is to become effective January 1, 2006. Under the prescription drug benefit, Medicare beneficiaries will be able to obtain prescription drug coverage from private sector providers. These private sector providers will be permitted to limit the number of prescription drugs that will be covered in each therapeutic category and class on their formularies. We cannot predict whether our products will be placed on the formularies of the private sector providers participating in the Part D program in 2006 and beyond, and if our products are not placed on such formularies, this could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. It remains difficult to predict the impact that the prescription drug program, and the MMA generally, will have on us and our industry. The expanded access to prescription medications afforded by Medicare coverage of prescription drugs may increase the volume of pharmaceutical sales. However, this potential sales volume increase may be offset by increased downward pricing pressures resulting from the enhanced purchasing power of private sector providers who will negotiate drug pricing on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries under Part D. In addition, we may face competition for our products from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. The MMA contains provisions that may change U.S. importation laws and expand consumers' ability to import lower priced versions of our and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to U.S. importation laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will lead to substantial savings for consumers and will not create a public health safety issue. The Secretary of Health and Human Services has not yet announced any plans to make the required certification. As directed by Congress, a task force on drug importation conducted a comprehensive study regarding the circumstances under which drug importation could be safely conducted and the consequences of importation on the health, medical costs and development of new medicines for U.S. consumers. The task force report issued its report in December 2004, finding that there are significant safety and economic issues that must be addressed before importation of prescription drugs is permitted. In addition, a number of federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the U.S. importation laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if the changes do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, the U.S. Customs Service, and other government agencies. For example, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our profitability. There also have been and likely will continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals at the state and federal levels that could bring about significant changes to the Medicaid drug rebate program and other federal pharmaceutical pricing programs in which we plan to participate for our products. Given these and other recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, federal and state lawmakers will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We cannot predict the impact on our business of any legislation or regulations that may be adopted in the future. Any cost containment measures and other healthcare system reforms that are adopted could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. If our products are not accepted by the market or if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from government and other third-party payors, our revenues and profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in significant part on the extent to which appropriate coverage of and reimbursement for our products and related treatments are obtained from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party payors will consider our products cost-effective or provide coverage of and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services and newly approved indications for existing products. Third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, less effective, or less cost-effective than existing products, and third- party payors may not approve our products for coverage and reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them. Such reduction or limitation in use of our products could cause our sales to suffer. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, payment levels may not be sufficient to make the sale of our products profitable to us. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of medical services and products may result in inadequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products. Many third-party payors, including in particular HMOs, are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs, including, for instance, the use of formularies. The market for our products depends on access to such formularies, which are lists of medications for which third-party payors provide reimbursement. These formularies are increasingly restricted, and pharmaceutical companies face significant competition in their efforts to place their products on formularies of HMOs and other third-party payors. This increased competition has led to a trend of downward pricing pressure in the industry. The cost containment measures that third-party payors are instituting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. Our business exposes us to product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. We face the risk that the use of our products in human clinical trials will result in adverse effects. If we complete clinical testing for our products and receive regulatory approval to market our products, we will mark our products with warnings that identify the known potential adverse effects and the patients who should not receive our product. We cannot ensure that physicians and patients will comply with these warnings. In addition, unexpected adverse effects may occur even with use of our products that receive approval for commercial sale. Although we are insured against such risks in connection with clinical trials and commercial sales of our products, our present product liability insurance may be inadequate. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. In addition, product liability coverage may cease to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our pharmaceutical products. A product liability claim or recall would have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves environmental risks. In connection with our research and development activities and our manufacture of materials and products, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including but not limited to certain hazardous chemicals and radioactive materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an occurrence, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. New and Potential New Accounting Pronouncements May Impact Our Future Financial Position and Results of Operations. New accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings may have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. In particular, in December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123R (SFAS 123R), Share-Based Payment-An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 123 and 95, which eliminated the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25). SFAS 123R will instead require companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to share-based payments including stock options and employee stock purchase plans. SFAS 123R is effective for public companies for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We will be required to implement SFAS 123R in the quarter that begins July 1, 2005. The adoption of FAS 123R will materially impact our results of operations. Executive Officers and Directors Executive officers and directors of the company, and their ages as of August 31, 2005, are as follows: Name Age Position Richard A. Miller, M.D. 54 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Geoffrey Cooper, Ph.D. 56 Senior Vice President, Business Development Timothy G. Whitten 48 Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations Leiv Lea 51 Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Hugo Madden, Ph.D. 56 Vice President, Chemical Operations See-Chun Phan, M.D. 41 Vice President, Clinical Research Markus F. Renschler, M.D. 44 Vice President, Oncology Clinical Development Miles R. Gilburne (2)(3) 54 Director Loretta M. Itri, M.D. (2)(3) 56 Director Richard M. Levy, Ph.D. (1)(3) 67 Director William R. Rohn (1)(3) 62 Director Craig C. Taylor (2)(3) 55 Director __________ (1) Member of Compensation Committee. (2) Member of Audit Committee. (3) Member of Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Dr. Miller has served as President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director since he co-founded the company in April 1991. Dr. Miller was a co-founder of IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation and from 1984 to February 1992 served as Vice President and a Director. Dr. Miller also is a Clinical Professor of Medicine (Oncology) at Stanford University Medical Center. Dr. Miller received his M.D. from the State University of New York Medical School and is board certified in both Internal Medicine and Medical Oncology. Dr. Cooper has served as Senior Vice President, Business Development since June 2005. Prior to joining Pharmacyclics, Dr. Cooper was Vice President, Corporate Development of OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. from June 1998 to June 2005, Senior Licensing Officer at Tanabe Seiyaku Co., Ltd. from February 1996 to June 1998, Assistant Vice President, Worldwide Licensing at Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories from January 1995 to January 1996, and Senior Director, Licensing at American Cyanamid Lederle Laboratories from October 1989 to January 1995. Dr. Cooper received a Ph.D. in pharmaceutical chemistry from the University of Aston, Birmingham, U.K., and conducted post-doctoral research in metabolic disease at University College, Cardiff, U.K. Mr. Whitten has served as Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations since September 2001. From 1985 through 2001, Mr. Whitten served in a variety of positions at Bristol-Myers Squibb, most recently as: Vice President, Global Marketing, Oncology, from February 2000 to September 2001; Vice President, Global Marketing, Oncology and Immunology from February 1999 to February 2000; Vice President, Pravastatin Initiative, from November 1997 to February 1999; Vice President, Marketing, Oncology and Immunology for the U.S. Business Unit, from April 1996 to October 1997. Mr. Whitten received his B.S. in Pharmacy from West Virginia University and an M.B.A. from the University of Virginia. Mr. Lea has served as Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer since December 1998 and Secretary since June 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Lea served as Vice President, Finance and Administration from December 1997 to December 1998. From September 1996 through November 1997, he served as a financial consultant for high technology companies and was Acting Chief Financial Officer for Global Village Communications, Inc. From 1987 through June 1996 he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Margaux, Inc., a public company that manufactured refrigeration equipment. Mr. Lea received a B.S. degree in Agricultural Economics from the University of California, Davis and an M.B.A. from the University of California, Los Angeles. Dr. Madden has served as Vice President, Chemical Operations since June 1998. From 1995 to June 1998, he served as Plant Manager and as Director of Process Development at Catalytica Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a contract pharmaceutical manufacturer. From 1977 to 1995, Dr. Madden served in a variety of positions with Syntex Corporation, a pharmaceutical company. His positions at Syntex included Technical Director at the Bahamas Chemical Division and Manager of Process Development and Engineering at the Technology Center in Boulder, Colorado. Dr. Madden received a B.A. degree in Chemistry from the University of Oxford and a Ph.D. from the University of London. Dr. Phan has served as Vice President, Clinical Research since June 2003. Prior to that, Dr. Phan served as Director, Clinical Development from June 2000 to June 2003 and as Associate Director, Clinical Development from July 1998 to June 2000. Dr. Phan trained in Internal Medicine, Hematology and Medical Oncology at Stanford University. He is board certified in Internal Medicine and Medical Oncology. Dr. Phan received his M.D. from Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and his B.S. degree in Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry from Yale University. Dr. Renschler has served as Vice President, Oncology Clinical Development since May 2001. Prior to that, Dr. Renschler served as Senior Director of Clinical Development from May 1998 to May 2001. Prior to that, Dr. Renschler served as Director of Clinical Development from January 1996 to May 1998. Dr. Renschler is also a Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine/Oncology at Stanford University School of Medicine. He is board certified both in Medical Oncology and Internal Medicine. Dr. Renschler received his M.D. from Stanford University and a B.A. degree in Public and International Affairs from Princeton University. Mr. Gilburne was elected as a Director of the company in March 2000. Mr. Gilburne has been a managing member of ZG Ventures, a venture capital and investment company, since 2000. From February 1995 through December 1999, he was Senior Vice President, Corporate Development for America Online, Inc., an internet services company. He is currently also a member of the board of directors of Time Warner Inc. and SRA International, Inc. Prior to joining America Online, Mr. Gilburne was a founding partner of the Silicon Valley office of the law firm of Weil, Gotshal and Manges and a founding partner of the Cole Gilburne Fund, an early stage venture capital fund focused on information technology. Mr. Gilburne received an A.B. degree from Princeton University and a law degree from the Harvard Law School. Dr. Itri was elected as a Director of the company in July 2001. She has served as President, Pharmaceutical Development, and Chief Medical Officer of Genta Incorporated, a biopharmaceutical company, since March 2003. She joined Genta in March 2001 as Executive Vice President, Clinical Development and Chief Medical Officer. From November 1990 to January 2000 she was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Clinical Affairs, and Chief Medical Officer at Ortho Biotech Inc., a Johnson & Johnson Company. Dr. Itri earned her M.D. from New York Medical College, and is board certified in Internal Medicine. She completed a fellowship in Medical Oncology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Dr. Levy was elected as a Director of the company in June 2000. He has served as President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Varian Medical Systems, Inc., a medical equipment company, since April 1999 and as its Chairman of the Board since February 2003, and as Executive Vice President of Varian Associates, Inc., the predecessor company from which Varian Medical Systems, Inc. was spun out, since 1992. Dr. Levy holds a B.A. degree from Dartmouth College and a Ph.D. in nuclear chemistry from the University of California at Berkeley. Mr. Rohn was elected as a Director of the company in March 2000. He retired in January 2005 from his position as the Chief Operating Officer of Biogen Idec Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, since the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in November 2003. He served as the President and Chief Operating Officer of IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation from January 2002 to November 2003. He joined IDEC in August 1993 as Senior Vice President, Commercial and Corporate Development and was appointed Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations in April 1996 and Chief Operating Officer in May 1998. From 1984 to 1993, he was employed by Adria Laboratories, most recently as Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Mr. Rohn is currently also a Director of Cerus Corporation and Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc. Mr. Rohn received a B.A. in Marketing from Michigan State University. Mr. Taylor was elected as a Director of the company in June 1991. Mr. Taylor is a General Partner of AMC Partners 89, L.P., and the General Partner of Asset Management Associates 1989, L.P., a private venture capital partnership. Mr. Taylor has been a Managing Member of Alloy Ventures, a venture management firm which succeeded Asset Management Company (the prior management firm for the Asset Management funds), since 1998. Mr. Taylor had been with Asset Management Company from 1977 to 1998, as General Partner since 1982. Mr. Taylor is a Director of Solexa, Inc., Adeza Biomedical, Inc., and several private companies. Mr. Taylor holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Physics from Brown University and an M.B.A. from Stanford University. 