Risk Factors" actually occur, there could be a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. If our products are not accepted by the market or if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from government and other third-party payors, our revenues and profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in significant part on the extent to which appropriate coverage of and reimbursement for our products and related treatments are obtained from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot provide any assurances that third- party payors will consider our products cost-effective or provide coverage of and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services and newly approved indications for existing products. Third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, less clinically effective, or less cost-effective than existing products, and third-party payors may not approve our products for coverage and reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them. Such reduction or limitation in use of our products could cause our sales to suffer. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, payment levels may not be sufficient to make the sale of our products profitable. Also, the trend towards managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of medical services and products, may result in inadequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products. Many third- party payors, including in particular HMOs, are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs, including, for instance, the use of formularies. The market for our products depends on access to such formularies, which are lists of medications for which third-party payors provide reimbursement. These formularies are increasingly restricted, and pharmaceutical companies face significant competition in their efforts to place their products on formularies of HMOs and other third-party payors. This increased competition has led to a downward pricing pressure in the industry. The cost containment measures that third-party payors are instituting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. Current health care laws and regulations and future legislative or regulatory changes to the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners, and the availability of capital. Federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact legislation that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system and, in particular, that are intended to contain or reduce the costs of medical products and services. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products are prescribed and purchased and will impact reimbursement for our products, which could result in a reduction in demand for our products. The MMA established a new reimbursement methodology for certain drugs furnished in hospital outpatient departments and physicians' offices which is based on the average sales price, or ASP, of the product. Application of the ASP reimbursement methodology has resulted in a decrease in the reimbursement levels for certain oncology drugs furnished in hospital outpatient departments and physicians' offices. As implemented in a recent rule establishing an MMA- mandated competitive bidding program, or CAP, physicians who administer drugs in their offices are offered an option to acquire injectable and infused drugs currently covered under the Medicare Part B benefit from vendors who are selected in a competitive bidding process. Winning vendors are selected based on criteria that include their bid price. These new reimbursement measures, 25 effective beginning July 1, 2006, could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. The MMA also established a new Part D prescription drug benefit, which became effective January 1, 2006. Under the prescription drug benefit, Medicare beneficiaries are able to obtain prescription drug coverage from private sector providers. These private sector providers are permitted to limit the number of prescription drugs that are covered in each therapeutic category and class on their formularies. We cannot predict whether our products will be placed on the formularies of the private sector providers participating in the Part D program in the future, and if our products are not placed on such formularies, this could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. It remains difficult to predict the full impact that the prescription drug program, and the MMA generally, will have on us and our industry. The expanded access to prescription medications afforded by Medicare coverage of prescription drugs may increase the volume of pharmaceutical sales. However, this potential sales volume increase may be offset by increased downward pricing pressures resulting from the enhanced purchasing power of private sector providers who will negotiate drug pricing on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries under Part D. There also have been and likely will continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals at the state and federal levels that could bring about significant changes to the Medicaid drug rebate program and other federal pharmaceutical pricing programs in which we plan to participate for our products. Given these and other recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, federal and state lawmakers will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We cannot predict the impact on our business of any legislation or regulations that may be adopted in the future. Any cost containment measures and other healthcare system reforms that are adopted could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. We may need to change our business practices to comply with health care fraud and abuse regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute's intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements, Congress authorized the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General ("OIG") to issue a series of regulations, known as the "safe harbors." These safe harbors set forth provisions that, if all their applicable requirements are met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing or causing to be filed a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from, the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as "qui tam" actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such 26 individuals, sometimes known as "relators" or, more commonly, as "whistleblowers", may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing of qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claim action. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of between $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. In addition to the laws described above, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations Our business exposes us to product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. We face the risk that the use of our products in human clinical trials will result in adverse effects. If we complete clinical testing for our products and receive regulatory approval to market our products, we will mark our products with warnings that identify the known potential adverse effects and the patients who should not receive our product. We cannot ensure that physicians and patients will comply with these warnings. In addition, unexpected adverse effects may occur even with use of our products that receive approval for commercial sale. Although we are insured against such risks in connection with clinical trials, our present product liability insurance may be inadequate. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. In addition, product liability coverage may cease to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our pharmaceutical products. A product liability claim or recall would have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves environmental risks. In connection with our research and development activities and our manufacture of materials and products, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including but not limited to certain hazardous chemicals and radioactive materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an occurrence, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Executive Officers and Directors Executive officers and directors of the company, and their ages as of August 31, 2008, are as follows: Name Age Position Richard A. Miller, M.D. 57 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Leiv Lea 54 Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Joseph J. Buggy 42 Vice President, Research David Loury, Ph.D. 52 Vice President, Preclinical Studies James N. Lowder 58 Vice President, Clinical Development Robert W. Duggan 64 Director Miles R. Gilburne(2)(3) 57 Director James L. Knighton(2)(3) 54 Director Richard M. Levy, Ph.D.(1)(3) 70 Director Christine A. White, M.D.(1)(2)(3) 56 Director _____________ (1) Member of Compensation Committee. (2) Member of Audit Committee. (3) Member of Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Dr. Miller has served as President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director since he co-founded the company in April 1991. Dr. Miller was a co-founder of IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation and from 1984 to February 1992 served as Vice President and a Director. Dr. Miller also is a Clinical Professor of Medicine (Oncology) at Stanford University Medical Center. Dr. Miller received his M.D. from the State University of New York Medical School and is board certified in both Internal Medicine and Medical Oncology. Mr. Lea has served as Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer since December 1998 and Secretary since June 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Lea served as Vice President, Finance and Administration from December 1997 to December 1998. From September 1996 through November 1997, he served as a financial consultant for high technology companies and was Acting Chief Financial Officer for Global Village Communications, Inc. From 1987 through June 1996 he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Margaux, Inc., a public company that manufactured refrigeration equipment. Mr. Lea received a B.S. degree in Agricultural Economics from the University of California, Davis and an M.B.A. from the University of California, Los Angeles. Dr. Buggy has served as Vice President, Research since September 2007. From May 2006 to August 2007, Dr. Buggy served as Senior Director, Cancer Biology. From November 2001 to April 2006, he served as Director, Department of Biology at Celera Genomics, a biotechnology company. From June 1996 to October 2001, he was a staff scientist at AXYS Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biotechnology company. Prior to that Dr. Buggy worked as a scientist at Bayer Corporation in West Haven, CT. Dr. Buggy received a Ph.D. in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology from Indiana University and a B.S. degree in Microbiology from the University of Pittsburgh. Dr. Loury has served as Vice President, Preclinical Studies since May 2006. From April 2003 to May 2006, Dr. Loury served as Senior Director, Toxicology with Celera Genomics, a biotechnology company. From June 2001 to April 2003, he was employed by Essential Therapeutics, Inc., a pharmaceutical company, as Director, Pharmacology and Toxicology. From 1996 to 2001, Dr. Loury was employed by IntraBiotics Pharmaceuticals, Inc., most recently as Senior Director, Preclinical Development. From 1986 to 1996 he worked in a variety of toxicology positions with Syntex/Roche Bioscience. Dr. Loury received a Ph.D. in 28 Pharmacology and Toxicology and a B.S. in Bio-Environmental Toxicology from the University of California, Davis. Dr. Lowder has served as Vice President, Clinical Development since July 2008. From November, 2006 to June, 2008, Dr. Lowder served as Senior Director, Clinical Development with Dynavax Technologies Corporation, a biotechnology company. From January 2003 to October, 2006, he was employed by PDL BioPharma, Inc., a biotechnology company as Senior Medical Director, Clinical Development. From 1998 to 2002, he worked for Chimeric Therapies, Inc. a privately held biotechnology company as Vice President, Medical Affairs. From 1988 to 1998, Dr. Lowder was employed by Becton, Dickinson and Company, a medical technology company, most recently as Worldwide Medical Director, Immunocytometry Systems. From 1986 to 1988, Dr. Lowder was on the staff of the Cleveland Clinic with joint appointments in the departments of Hematology/Oncology and Immunology and Cancer Research. Dr. Lowder received an M.D. and a B.S. in Dentistry from Case Western Reserve University. He did Internal Medicine residency and Hematology fellowship training at Case Western Reserve Univerity Hospitals and a Medical Oncology Fellowship at Stanford. He is board certified in Internal Medicine and Medical Oncology. Mr. Duggan has been a member of our Board of Directors since September 2007. Mr. Duggan served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Computer Motion, Inc., a computerized surgical systems company, from 1990 to 2003 and Chief Executive Officer from 1997. Computer Motion was acquired by Intuitive Surgical, Inc. in 2003. Mr. Duggan is the Founder of the investment firm Robert W. Duggan & Associates. Mr. Duggan has been a private venture investor for more than 30 years and has participated as a director of, investor in and advisor to numerous small and large businesses in the medical equipment, computer local and wide area network, PC hardware and software distribution, digital encryption, consumer retail goods and outdoor media communication industries. Mr. Duggan has also assisted in corporate planning, capital formation and management for his various investments. He received the Congressman's Medal of Merit and in 2000 he was named a Knight of the Legion of Honor by President Jacques Chirac. Mr. Duggan is currently also a director of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. He is a member of the University of California at Santa Barbara Foundation Board of Trustees. Mr. Gilburne was elected as a Director of the company in March 2000. Mr. Gilburne has been a managing member of ZG Ventures, a venture capital and investment company, since 2000. From February 1995 through December 1999, he was Senior Vice President, Corporate Development for America Online, Inc., an internet services company. He joined the board of directors of America Online in the fall of 1999 and subsequently served as a member of the board of directors of Time Warner Inc. until stepping down in May 2006. Prior to joining America On line, Mr. Gilburne was a founding partner of The Cole Gilburne Fund, an early stage venture capital fund focused on information and communications technology and a founding partner of technology and media law firms in both San Francisco and Los Angeles. Mr. Gilburne is currently a member of the board of directors of SRA International, Inc., a government services company and Maui Land & Pineapple, a real estate and agriculture company. Mr. Gilburne is also a founding investor and member of the board of several privately held companies, including Revolution Health Group, a company focused on various aspects of consumer driven healthcare and ePals, a global community of online learners. He is also a member of the board of the Foundation of NIH. Mr. Gilburne received an A.B. degree from Princeton University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. Mr. Knighton was elected as a Director of the company in August 2006. Mr. Knighton has served as President and co-founder of AvidBiotics Corporation, a private biotechnology company since April 2005. Mr. Knighton served as President/Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. from July 2003 to March 2004. Mr. Knighton originally joined Caliper in September 1999 as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, was promoted to Executive Vice President in April 2001 and to President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2002. From October 1998 to September 1999, Mr. Knighton served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of SUGEN, Inc., a biotechnology company acquired by Pharmacia. From July 1997 to October 1998, Mr. Knighton served as Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications at Chiron Corporation, a biotechnology company. Mr. Knighton holds a B.S. in Biology from the University of Notre Dame, an M.S. in Genetics from the University of Pennsylvania and a M.B.A. from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. 29 Dr. Levy was elected as a Director of the company in June 2000. Dr. Levy retired in February 2006 from his position as President and Chief Executive Officer of Varian Medical Systems, Inc., a medical equipment company. Dr. Levy remains Chairman of the Board of Directors of Varian Medical Systems, a position he has held since February 2003. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Varian Medical Systems, Inc., since April 1999, and as Executive Vice President of Varian Associates, Inc., the predecessor company from which Varian Medical Systems, Inc. was spun out, since 1992. Dr. Levy also serves on the Board of Directors of Sutter Health, a not-for-profit multi-provider integrated health care delivery system. Dr. Levy holds a B.A. degree from Dartmouth College and a Ph.D. in nuclear chemistry from the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. White was elected as a Director of the company in August 2006. Dr. White retired in June 2005 from her position as Senior Vice President, Global Medical Affairs of Biogen Idec Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, a position held since the merger of Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in November 2003. She joined IDEC Pharmaceuticals in June 1996 and served as Senior Director, Oncology and Hematology Clinical Development until June 2000 when she was appointed Vice President, Oncology and Hematology Clinical Development. In May 2001, she was appointed Vice President, Medical Affairs. From 1994 to June 1996, Dr. White was Director, Clinical Oncology Research at the Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center in San Diego. From 1984 to 1994, Dr. White held various positions with Scripps Memorial Hospitals, San Diego County, most recently as Chair, Department of Medicine. Dr. White is also a director of Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, Monogram Biosciences, Inc., a life sciences company, and Apoptos Inc., a private biopharmaceutical company and is a consultant to the Biotechnology Industry. Dr. White holds a B.A. degree in Biology and M.D. degree, both from the University of Chicago and is board certified in internal medicine and medical oncology 