Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Anyone who is making an investment decision regarding our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company or your investment. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material, or of which we are not presently aware, may become important factors that adversely affect our security holders or us in the future. If any of the risks discussed below actually materialize, then our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and future prospects, or your investment in our securities, could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in a loss of all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Pharmacyclics We will need substantial additional financing and we may have difficulty raising needed capital in the future. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to complete the research, development and clinical testing of our products. We are unable to entirely fund these efforts with our current financial resources. We may also raise additional funds through the public or private sale of securities, bank debt, collaborations or otherwise. If we are unable to secure additional funds, whether through additional partnership collaborations, bank debt financings, or sale of our securities, we will have to delay, reduce the scope of or discontinue one or more of our product development programs. Based upon the current status of our product development plans, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for at least the next twelve months. We may, however, choose to raise additional funds before then. Our actual capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: · progress with preclinical studies and clinical trials; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approval; · continued progress of our research and development programs; 23 Table of Contents · our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements with third parties; · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; · the amount and timing of capital equipment purchases; and · competing technological and market developments. We also expect to raise any necessary additional funds through the public or private sale of securities, bank debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources that may be highly dilutive, or otherwise disadvantageous, to existing stockholders or subject us to restrictive covenants. In addition, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners or other sources, such arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products under development that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. Additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to raise capital when needed and on acceptable terms would require us to reduce our operating expenses, delay or reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs and would limit our ability to respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements and to continue operations. Any one of the foregoing would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain product approvals or comply with ongoing governmental regulations could adversely affect our business. The manufacture and marketing of our products and our research and development activities are subject to extensive regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous government authorities in the United States and abroad. Before receiving FDA approval to market a product, we will have to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that the product is safe and effective for the patient population and for the diseases that will be treated. Clinical trials, and the manufacturing and marketing of products, are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacture, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. As a result, clinical trials and regulatory approval can take a number of years to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections based upon additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. We may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. We may be unable to obtain requisite approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities and even if obtained, such approvals may not be received on a timely basis, or they may not cover the clinical uses that we specify. Furthermore, regulatory approval may entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. The manufacture and marketing of drugs are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory review and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Any of the following events, if they were to occur, could delay or preclude us from further developing, marketing or realizing full commercial use of our products, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: · failure to obtain and thereafter maintain requisite governmental approvals; 24 Table of Contents · failure to obtain approvals for specific indications of our products under development; · identification of serious and unanticipated adverse side effects in our products under development; or · identification of previously unknown problems with the manufacturing or manufacturing processes for our products. Any regulatory approval that we receive for a product candidate may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. In addition, if the FDA and/or foreign regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion of the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We and the manufacturers of our product candidates must also comply with the applicable FDA Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) regulations, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed before they can be used in commercial manufacturing of our products. We or our present or future suppliers may be unable to comply with the applicable GMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. Failure of our suppliers to follow current GMP Practice or other regulatory requirements may lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial or clinical use and could subject us to fines, injunctions and civil penalties. All of our product candidates are in development, and we cannot be certain that any of our products under development will be commercialized. To be profitable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our products under development. The time frame necessary to achieve these goals for any individual product is long and uncertain. Before we can sell any of our products under development, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and regulatory authorities in foreign markets through the submission of preclinical (animal) studies and clinical (human) trials that each product is safe and effective for human use for each targeted disease. We have conducted and plan to continue to conduct extensive and costly clinical trials to assess the safety and effectiveness of our potential products. We cannot be certain that we will be permitted to begin or continue our planned clinical trials for our potential products, or if permitted, that our potential products will prove to be safe and produce their intended effects. The completion rate of our clinical trials depends upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment, the adequacy of patient follow-up and the completion of required clinical evaluations. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, competing clinical trials and new drugs or procedures used for the conditions we are investigating. Other companies are conducting clinical trials and have announced plans for future trials that are seeking or are likely to seek patients with the same diseases that we are studying. We may fail to obtain adequate levels of patient enrollment in our clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs, delays or termination of clinical trials, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Many factors can affect the adequacy of patient follow-up and completion of required clinical evaluations, including failure of patients to return for scheduled visits or failure of clinical sites to complete necessary documentation. Delays in or failure to obtain required clinical follow-up and completion of clinical evaluations could also have a material adverse effect on the timing and outcome of our clinical trials and product approvals. Additionally, clinical trials require substantial administration and monitoring. We may fail to effectively oversee and monitor the various trials we have underway at any particular time, which would result in increased costs or delays of our clinical trials or compromise our ability to obtain product approvals. 25 Table of Contents Data already obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials of our products under development do not necessarily predict the results that will be obtained from later preclinical studies and clinical trials. Moreover, data from clinical trials we are conducting are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a product under development could limit or prevent regulatory approval of the potential product and would materially harm our business. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate the sufficient levels of safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approval or may not result in marketable products. We have a history of operating losses and we expect to continue to have losses in the future. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception in 1991 and, as of June 30, 2012, had an accumulated deficit of $401,139,000. We expect to continue to incur substantial additional operating losses until such time, if ever, as the commercialization of our products generates sufficient revenue to cover our expenses. All of our product candidates are in the early stages of development and the commercialization of those products will not occur, if at all, for at least the next several years. While during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 we had net income of $11,986,000, we have not generated any commercial revenues from the sale of our products. Our sustaining profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to successfully complete the development of our product candidates, and to obtain required regulatory approvals and to successfully manufacture and market our proposed product. Acceptance of our products in the marketplace is uncertain, and failure to achieve market acceptance will harm our business. Even if approved for marketing, our products may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: · the receipt of regulatory approvals for the indications that we are studying, and the acceptance by physicians and patients of the clinical benefits that our products may offer; · the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products and their potential advantages over existing therapeutic products; · marketing and distribution support; · the introduction, market penetration and pricing strategies of competing and future products; · coverage and reimbursement policies of governmental and other third- party payers such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators; and · physicians, patients, payers or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, purchase, utilize or recommend any of our products. 26 Table of Contents We may fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third-party patents. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect and defend our proprietary technology and product candidates through patents and trade secret protection. We, therefore, aggressively pursue, prosecute, protect and defend patent applications, issued patents, trade secrets, and licensed patent and trade secret rights covering certain aspects of our technology. The evaluation of the patentability of United States and foreign patent applications can take years to complete and can involve considerable expense and uncertainty. We have a number of patents and patent applications related to our compounds but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will issue as patents. Even if patents are issued and maintained, these patents may not be of adequate scope to benefit us, or may be held invalid and unenforceable against third parties. We face risks and uncertainties related to our intellectual property rights. For example: · we may be unable to obtain or maintain patent or other intellectual property protection for any products or processes that we may develop; · third parties may obtain patents covering the manufacture, use or sale of these products, which may prevent us from commercializing any of our products under development globally or in certain regions; and · any future patents that we may obtain may not prevent other companies from competing with us by designing their products or conducting their activities so as to avoid the coverage of our patents. The actual protection afforded by a patent varies depending on the product candidate and country and depends upon many factors, including the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, the availability of regulatory related extensions, the availability of legal remedies in a particular country and the validity and enforceability of the patents under existing and future laws. Our ability to maintain or enhance our proprietary position for our product candidates will depend on our success in obtaining effective claims and enforcing those claims once granted. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products. Due to the extensive amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary rights and information, including the use of confidentiality and other agreements with our employees and consultants, and in our academic and commercial relationships, these steps may be inadequate, these agreements may be violated, or there may be no adequate remedy available for a violation. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Furthermore, our trade secrets may become known to our competitors even in the absence of any violation of our rights. Our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in unpatented proprietary technology. 27 Table of Contents Our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. If we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing our products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. We may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. We own patents that claim our BTK inhibitor ibrutinib as a chemical entity. However, the existence of issued patents does not guarantee our right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have or obtain rights to patents which they may claim could be used to prevent or attempt to prevent us from commercializing our patented product candidates. If these other parties are successful in obtaining valid and enforceable patents, and establishing our infringement of those patents, we could be prevented from selling our BTK inhibitor ibrutinib or any of our other products unless we were able to obtain a license under such patents. If any license is needed it may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. Our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors. We are dependent on our collaboration agreement with Janssen to further develop and commercialize our BTK inhibitor ibrutinib (formerly PCI-32765) globally. The failure to maintain this agreement or the failure of Janssen to perform its obligations under this agreement, could negatively impact our business. Pursuant to the terms of our collaboration and licensing agreement with Janssen, we granted Janssen a license to co-develop (with us) our BTK Inhibitor ibrutinib globally, to co-commercialize it (with us) in the U.S., and to exclusively commercialize it outside of the U.S., in each case for all non-immunology related indications. Under a global development plan, each party will be responsible for conducting certain clinical trials. The agreement includes a cost sharing arrangement for associated development activities. Except in certain cases, in general Janssen is responsible for approximately 60% of development costs and we are responsible for the remaining 40% of development costs. Upon commercialization, profits and losses will be shared 50/50. We have limited control over the development or commercialization costs incurred by Janssen, and limited control over the implementation of development and commercial activities performed by them. Our costs and revenue are therefore tied to efforts made by ourselves and Janssen in developing and marketing our product. We have limited control over the amount of time and effort Janssen will devote to the development, manufacturing and commercialization of our BTK Inhibitor ibrutinib, and very limited control over the manner in which Janssen conducts its business with regard to obtaining regulatory and other approvals and commercializing the product, especially outside the U.S. Accordingly, our revenue and financial position may be adversely affected if Janssen does not dedicate sufficient time to the development and commercialization of the BTK Inhibitor ibrutinib, fails to obtain regulatory approvals, or otherwise fails to comply with its obligations under the agreement. We are subject to a number of other risks associated with our dependence on our collaboration and license agreement with Janssen, including: • We and Janssen could disagree as to future development plans and Janssen may delay future clinical trials or stop a future clinical trial; • There may be disputes between us and Janssen, including disagreements regarding the collaboration and license agreement, that may result in (1) the delay of or failure to achieve regulatory and commercial objectives that would result in milestone or profit share payments, (2) the delay or termination of any future development or commercialization of ibrutinib, and/or (3) costly litigation or arbitration that diverts our management’s attention and resources; 28 Table of Contents • Janssen may not provide us with timely and accurate information regarding supply forecasts, which could adversely impact our ability to comply with our supply obligations to Janssen and manage our own inventory of ibrutinib, as well as our ability to generate accurate financial forecasts; • Business combinations or significant changes in Janssen's business strategy may adversely affect Janssen's ability or willingness to perform its obligations under our collaboration agreement; • If Janssen is unsuccessful performing clinical trials, or in obtaining regulatory approvals for or commercializing ibrutinib outside the U.S., we may not receive certain additional milestone payments or any profit payments under the collaboration and license agreement and our business prospects and financial results may be materially harmed; • Janssen may not comply with applicable regulatory requirements or guidelines with respect to developing or commercializing ibrutinib, which could adversely impact future development or sales of ibrutinib globally. The collaboration and license agreement is subject to early termination, including through Janssen's right to terminate without cause upon advance notice to us. If the agreement is terminated early, we may not be able to find another collaborator for the further development and commercialization of ibrutinib on acceptable terms, or at all, and we may be unable to pursue continued development and commercialization of ibrutinib on our own. If our collaboration is unsuccessful or is terminated by Janssen, we might not effectively develop and market our BTK Inhibitor ibrutinib. Integral to the success of our collaboration with Janssen is our ability to timely achieve certain milestones and obtain regulatory approvals. Our collaboration with Janssen may be unsuccessful. Under the terms of our agreement, Janssen may terminate its agreement with us without cause and upon short notice. Termination of our agreement would hinder our efforts to effectively develop and commercialize the BTK Inhibitor ibrutinib. There would be a delay in getting our product to market. Such delay would likely result in higher costs for us and could adversely affect any progress we have made in clinical trials. We may have difficulty finding another collaboration partner on favorable terms if Janssen terminates our agreement. We might not be able to raise capital on our own. We do not have sufficient skilled personnel to fully assist in global development or marketing endeavors. As we currently lack the resources to properly develop, market and commercialize the BTK Inhibitor ibrutinib, we may be unable to continue to develop the BTK Inhibitor ibrutinib without the continued assistance of Janssen. We rely heavily on third parties for product and clinical development of our products. We currently depend heavily and will continue to depend heavily in the future on third parties for support in product development and clinical development of our products. The termination of a significant number of our existing collaborative arrangements, or our inability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete clinical development of our products. Given our limited resources, it may be necessary to establish partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies that have greater financial and technical resources in order to successfully develop and commercialize our products. Although we have entered into a global strategic alliance with Servier related to the research, development, and commercialization of abexinostat (formerly known as PCI-24781), there is no assurance that any additional partnerships can be obtained, and if obtained, such partnership may require us to relinquish product rights that could affect the financial success of these products. 29 Table of Contents We engage clinical investigators and medical institutions to enroll subjects in our clinical trials and contract clinical research organizations, or CROs, for various aspects of our clinical development activities including clinical trial monitoring, data collection, safety monitoring and data management. As a result, we have had and continue to have less control over the conduct of clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Although we rely on CROs to conduct some of our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Any failure of such CROs to successfully accomplish clinical trial monitoring, data collection, safety monitoring and data management and the other services they provide for us in a timely manner and in compliance with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete clinical development of our products and obtain regulatory approval. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a CRO may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternate service provider. However, making such changes may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. We lack the resources, capability and experience necessary to manufacture pharmaceuticals and thus rely heavily upon contract manufacturers. We have no manufacturing facilities and we currently rely on third parties for manufacturing and storage activities related to all of our products in development. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: · delays in scale-up to quantities needed for multiple clinical trials, or failure to manufacture such quantities to our specifications, or deliver such quantities on the dates we require, could cause delay or suspension of clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products in development; · there is no guarantee that the supply of clinical materials can be maintained during the clinical development of our product candidates; · our current and future manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding regulatory agencies for compliance with strictly enforced cGMP and similar standards in other countries. Failure to pass these inspections could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our products to support our operations; · if we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors, there is no guarantee that we will be able to locate a suitable replacement contractor. The FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve material manufactured by these contractors prior to our use. This would require new testing and compliance inspections. The new manufacturers would have to practice substantially equivalent processes for the production of our products; 30 Table of Contents · our current manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand; and · any disruption of the ability of our manufacturing contractors to supply necessary quantities of our products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to support our operations. Any of these factors could delay clinical trials or commercialization of our products under development and entail higher costs. We lack marketing, distribution and sales experience. Although we intend to develop our marketing, sales and distribution functions, we currently lack the internal capability to commercialize our products. If any of our product candidates are approved by the FDA, we will need a drug sales force with technical expertise prior to the commercialization of any of our product candidates. We will incur substantial additional expenses in developing, training and managing such an organization. We may be unable to build such a sales force, the cost of establishing such a sales force may exceed any product revenue, or our direct marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. In addition, we compete with many other companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against those of such other companies. We may need to enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the commercial success of our products. To the extent we enter into co-promotion or other licensing agreements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and may not be within our control. If we are unable to enter into co-promotion or other licensing agreements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our existing and future product candidates. If we are not successful in commercializing our existing and future product candidates, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant losses or become unable to continue the operation of our business. If we lose or are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, then we may not be able to develop our products or processes and obtain the required regulatory approvals. We are highly dependent on qualified scientific and management personnel. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial, development and other resources in order to successfully pursue our research, development and commercialization efforts for our existing and future product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and personnel with pre-clinical and clinical experience. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our research and development and partnering activities. We face intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Francisco, California area. We are highly dependent on our executives including Robert W. Duggan, our CEO, and in fact Mr. Duggan has provided significant financing to us. If Mr. Duggan or any of our executives were to terminate their position with us, or we were to lose an additional executive officer, any of our senior scientists, a manager of one of our programs, or a significant number of any of our staff or we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, then our ability to develop and commercialize our products and processes, raise additional capital or implement our business strategy may be adversely affected or rendered impractical and our business may be harmed as a result. 31 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks associated with international operations and collaborations. The laws of foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In countries where we do not have and/or have not applied for patents on our products, we will be unable to prevent others from developing or selling similar products. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the United States where we acquire patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our patented technology. Until we or our licensees obtain the required regulatory approvals for pharmaceuticals in any specific foreign country, we or our licensees will be unable to sell these products in that country. International regulatory authorities have imposed numerous and varying regulatory requirements and the approval procedures can involve additional testing. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by any other regulatory authority. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Our income tax obligations are based on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value, and use our intellectual property and the scope of our international operations. The tax laws applicable to our international business activities, including the laws of the United States and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles. We are subject to regular review and audit by both U.S. federal and state and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in the U.S. taxation of international business activities or the adoption of other tax reform policies could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. The current administration has made public statements indicating that it has made international tax reform a priority, and key members of the U.S. Congress have conducted hearings and proposed a wide variety of potential changes. Certain changes to U.S. tax laws, including limitations on the ability to defer U.S. taxation on earnings outside of the United States until those earnings are repatriated to the United States, could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings, as well as cash and cash equivalent balances we currently maintain outside of the United States. Due to the expanding scale of our international business activities, any changes in the U.S. taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our revenues and the majority of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars and as a result, we have not experienced significant foreign currency transaction gains and losses to date. We have conducted some transactions in foreign currencies during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, primarily related to ex-U.S. clinical trial activities, and we expect to continue to do so. We have not entered into any agreements or transactions to hedge the risk associated with potential fluctuations in currencies; accordingly, we are subject to foreign currency exchange risk related to these ex-U.S. clinical trial activities. While we may enter into hedge or other agreements in the future to actively manage this risk, we do not believe this risk is material to our financial statements. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these or other claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may face injunctions that restrict or preclude our access to important markets, intellectual property, or personnel. Any restriction or loss of access to markets, intellectual property, research personnel or work product that are key to our operations could hamper or negate our ability to commercialize certain potential drugs, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We may be subject to damages or injunctions resulting from employment discrimination or harassment claims that our employees or former employees bring against us. Although we have developed and are in the process of implementing a program for compliance with federal and state civil rights laws and employment laws, including laws prohibiting any harassment or discrimination in the hiring, promotion, firing, or treatment of employees on the basis of age, race, color, ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, marital status, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, religious denomination, pregnancy status, or other classification, we cannot guarantee that our compliance program will be sufficient or effective, that our employees will comply with our policies, that our employees will notify us of any violation of our policies, that we will have the ability to take appropriate and timely corrective action in response to any such violation, or that we will make decisions and take actions that will necessarily limit or avoid liability with respect to any employment discrimination or harassment claim our employees may bring against us, including any claim under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 1991 (as amended), the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”), as amended, Section 1981 of the Civil Rights Acts of 1866, the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (as amended) (“ADEA”), the Older Workers Benefits Protection Act, the Employee Retirement Income and Securities Act (“ERISA”), the Family and Medical Leave Act ("FMLA"), the California Family Rights Act ("CFRA"), the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 ("ADA"), the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the Equal Pay Act, of 1963, as amended, California Business and Professions Code 17200, any and all protections pursuant to California’s Labor Code or the Fair Labor Standards Act (“FLSA”), and any federal or state constitutional rights and protections. Discrimination claims and harassment claims brought by employees or former employees against their employers or former employers have increased substantially in recent years. In addition, the enactment of new federal and state laws, the amendment of existing federal and state laws, and the interpretation of existing or future laws by court decision could further expand the grounds on which employees and former employees may pursue claims of employment discrimination or harassment. We cannot adequately predict whether our compliance program will effectively protect us from liability under present or future federal or state laws against employment discrimination or harassment. If one or more of our employees brings a claim of employment discrimination or harassment against us and if we are found liable for damages and/or an injunction is imposed on us or we agree to pay damages and/or accept an injunction in settlement of the claim, the payment of the damages amount or the curtailment of our activities consequent to the injunction could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and impair or prevent us from continuing our business. 33 Table of Contents We may be subject to damages or injunctions resulting from qui tam or “whistleblower” actions that our employees or former employees bring against us. Although we have developed and are in the process of implementing a program for compliance with all federal and state laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that our compliance program will be sufficient or effective, that our employees will comply with our policies, that our employees will notify us of any violation of our policies, that we will have the ability to take appropriate and timely corrective action in response to any such violation, or that we will make decisions and take actions that will necessarily limit or avoid liability for qui tam or federal “whistleblower” claims that our employees or former employees may bring against us or that governmental authorities may prosecute against us based on information provided by our employees or former employees. Qui tam or “whistleblower” claims against employers brought by employees or former employees or governmental authorities based on information from employees or former employees have increased substantially in recent years. In any qui tam or “whistleblower” action that results in the payment of a fine imposed by a court or a settlement, the employee or former employee who brought the claim or furnished information allowing the governmental authority to prosecute the claim is rewarded with a percentage of the fine or settlement amount collected from the employer. The prospect of sharing in the proceeds of any fine collected from the employer motivates employees and former employees to bring qui tam or “whistleblower” claims or to furnish information to a governmental authority for the prosecution of such claims. In addition, the enactment of new federal and state laws, the amendment of existing federal and state laws, and the interpretation of existing or future laws by court decision could further expand the grounds on which employees and former employees may pursue qui tam or “whistleblower” claims. We cannot adequately predict whether our compliance program will effectively protect us from liability under present or future federal or state laws relating to qui tam or “whistleblower” claims that our employees or former employees may bring against us or that governmental authorities may prosecute against us on the basis of information provided by our employees or former employees. If one or more of our employees brings a qui tam or “whistleblower” claim against us or if a governmental authority prosecutes a claim against us on the basis of information provided by one or more of our employees or former employees, and if we are found liable and a fine and/or an injunction is imposed on us or we agree to pay a fine and/or accept an injunction in settlement of the claim, the payment of the fine and/or the curtailment of our activities consequent to the injunction could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and impair or prevent us from continuing our business. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. We invest funds in excess of those needed for working capital and operating expenses in marketable securities which may include corporate notes, certificates of deposit, government securities and other financial instruments. Significant declines in the value of these investments due to the operating performance of the companies we invest in or general economic or market conditions may result in the recognition of realized or impairment losses which could be material. 34 Table of Contents We may need to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy reporting requirements. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including Section 404, and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 and other requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources. We may need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy reporting requirements. While we have been able to complete an unqualified assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2012, there is no assurance that future assessments of the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting will be unqualified. If we are unable to obtain future unqualified reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, coverage and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. While we have developed and are implementing a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices, we cannot provide any assurance that governmental authorities will find that our business practices comply with current or future administrative or judicial interpretations of potentially applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws and regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, disqualification or disbarment from participation in federally-funded health care programs or other sanctions or litigation, any of which events may have a significant adverse impact on our business. Our facility in California is located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect results. Important documents and records, such as hard copies of our laboratory books and records for our drug candidates and compounds, are located in our corporate headquarters at a single location in Sunnyvale, California, which is near active earthquake zones. We do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption in the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, drought or flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems. In addition, California from time to time has experienced shortages of water, electric power and natural gas. Future shortages and conservation measures could disrupt our operations and cause expense, thus adversely affecting our business and financial results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If our results do not meet our and analysts’ forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline. Analysts who cover our business and operations provide valuations regarding our stock price and make recommendations whether to buy, hold or sell our stock. Our stock price may be dependent upon such valuations and recommendations. Analysts’ valuations and recommendations are based primarily on our reported results and our and their forecasts and expectations concerning our future results regarding, for example, expenses, revenues, clinical trials, regulatory marketing approvals and competition. Our future results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and we may fail to meet or exceed our and analysts’ forecasts and expectations as a result of a number of factors, including those discussed under the section entitled “Risks Related to Pharmacyclics” above. If our results do not meet our and analysts’ forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. 35 Table of Contents Future equity issuances or a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Because we may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to expand our business and our research and development activities, among other things, we may conduct additional equity offerings. If we or our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of options and warrants) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. A decline in the market price of our common stock could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If our officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they are able to control our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and their affiliates collectively have the ability to determine the election of all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. In addition, provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law also restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our board of directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing stockholder value. However, these prohibitions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. The price of our common stock is volatile. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including ours, have historically been highly volatile. Our stock, like that of many other companies, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations sometimes unrelated to operating performance. For example, during the period beginning July 1, 2010 and ending June 30, 2012, the sales price for one share of our common stock reached a high of $54.61 per share and a low of $4.88 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: · the progress and results of our preclinical testing, clinical trials, product development and partnering activities; · quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; · the development of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us, our competitors or others; 36 Table of Contents · changes in governmental regulation; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us, our competitors or others; · developments and/or announcements by us, our competitors or others; · litigation; · public concern as to the safety of products developed by us, our competitors or others; · departure of key personnel; · ability to manufacture our products to commercial standards; · changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems and the coverage and reimbursement policies of governmental and other third-party payers; · our ability to successfully commercialize our products if they are approved; · comments by securities analysts; and · general market conditions in our industry. In addition, if any of the risks described in this section entitled “Risk Factors” actually occur, there could be a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry We face rapid technological change and intense competition. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Therapies designed by other companies to treat the conditions that are the focus of our products are currently in clinical trials. Developments by others may render our products under development or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with technological developments or other market factors. Technological competition in the industry from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities than we do, as well as substantially more marketing, sales, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase such competitors’ financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources. In addition, we may experience competition from companies that have acquired or may acquire technology from universities and other research institutions. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions that compete with our products. We are engaged in the development of novel therapeutic technologies. Our resources are limited and we may experience technical challenges inherent in such novel technologies. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing similar therapeutic effects than our products. Our competitors may develop products that are safer, more effective or less costly than our products and, therefore, present a serious competitive threat to our product offerings. Our competitors may price their products below ours, may receive better coverage and/or reimbursement or may have products that are more cost effective than ours. 37 Table of Contents The widespread acceptance of therapies that are alternatives to ours may limit market acceptance of our products even if commercialized. The diseases for which we are developing our therapeutic products can also be treated, in the case of cancer, by surgery, radiation, biologics and chemotherapy. These treatments are widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. The established use of these competitive products may limit the potential for our products to receive widespread acceptance if commercialized. We may be unable to demonstrate any pharmacoeconomic advantage for our products compared to established or standard-of-care therapies for our target patient populations. In addition, many of our target patient populations can present with indolent, or slowly progressing, disease. It may be difficult for us to show that treatment with our products provides a significant improvement in clinical outcome compared to the avoidance of treatment, or watching for the progression of disease, in such patients. Payers may decide that the potential improvement our products provide to clinical outcomes in our target patient populations is not adequate to justify the costs of treatment with our products. If payers do not view our products as offering a better balance between clinical benefit and treatment cost compared to standard-of-care therapies, the profitability of our products may be severely reduced. If our products are not accepted by the market or if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from government and other third-party payers, our revenue and profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in significant part on the extent to which appropriate coverage of and reimbursement for our products and related treatments are obtained from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot provide any assurances that third- party payers will consider our products cost-effective or provide coverage of and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services and newly approved indications for existing products. Third-party payers may conclude that our products are less safe, less clinically effective, or less cost-effective than existing products, and third-party payers may not approve our products for coverage and reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from third-party payers, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them. Such reduction or limitation in use of our products could cause our sales to suffer. Even if third-party payers make reimbursement available, payment levels may not be sufficient to make the sale of our products profitable. Also, the trend towards managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of medical services and products, may result in inadequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products. Many third- party payers, including in particular HMOs, are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs, including, for instance, the use of formularies. The market for our products depends on access to such formularies, which are lists of medications for which third-party payers provide reimbursement. These formularies are increasingly restricted, and pharmaceutical companies face significant competition in their efforts to place their products on formularies of HMOs and other third-party payers. This increased competition has led to a downward pricing pressure in the industry. The cost containment measures that third-party payers are instituting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. 38 Table of Contents Current health care laws and regulations, including the recently enacted health care reform, as well as future legislative or regulatory changes to the healthcare system, may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, there has been recent legislation, as well as legislative and regulatory proposals, changing the healthcare system in ways that may affect our future revenue and profitability, and the future revenue and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners, and the availability of capital. Federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact legislation that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system and, in particular, that are intended to contain or reduce the costs of medical products and services. The most significant recent health care legislation is the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or the “Healthcare Reform Act”, which President Obama signed into law in March 2010. This law substantially changes how health care is funded by the state and federal government as well as private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. Though the full effect of the Healthcare Reform Act on pharmaceutical companies has yet to be seen, the changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, new governmental programs, and fraud and abuse enforcements. The Healthcare Reform Act takes effect in stages through 2018. Certain aspects of the Health Care Reform Act are likely to adversely affect pharmaceutical manufacturers in particular. For example, in 2011, the Healthcare Reform Act imposed non-deductible annual flat fees on pharmaceutical manufacturers and importers based upon relative market share. Furthermore, as part of the Healthcare Reform Act closing a funding gap in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, certain pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to provide a 50% discount on drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this funding gap. There also have been and likely will continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals at the state and federal levels that could bring about significant changes to the Medicaid drug rebate program and other federal pharmaceutical pricing and rebate programs. Given these and other recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, federal and state lawmakers will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These efforts could adversely affect our business by, among other possibilities, limiting the prices that can be charged for drugs we develop or the amount of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or third-party payers, limiting the profits that pharmaceutical companies may earn on certain sales, increasing the tax obligations on pharmaceutical companies, increasing our rebate liability, or limiting our commercial opportunity. We cannot predict the impact on our business of any legislation or regulations that may be adopted in the future. Any cost containment measures and other healthcare system reforms that are adopted could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. We may need to change our business practices to comply with health care fraud and abuse regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. 39 Table of Contents The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements, Congress authorized the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) to issue a series of regulations, known as the “safe harbors.” These safe harbors set forth provisions that, if all their applicable requirements are met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing or causing to be filed a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from, the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, sometimes known as “relators” or, more commonly, as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing of qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claim action. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of between $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim, and face exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal health programs. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. In addition to the laws described above, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Our business exposes us to product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. We face the risk that the use of our products in human clinical trials will result in adverse effects. If we complete clinical testing for our products and receive regulatory approval to market our products, we will mark our products with warnings that identify the known potential adverse effects and the patients who should not receive our product. We cannot ensure that physicians and patients will comply with these warnings. In addition, unexpected adverse effects may occur even with use of our products that receive approval for commercial sale. Although we are insured against such risks in connection with clinical trials, our present product liability insurance may be inadequate. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. In addition, product liability coverage may cease to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our pharmaceutical products. A product liability claim or recall would have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents Our business involves environmental risks. In connection with our research and development activities and our manufacture of materials and products, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including but not limited to certain hazardous chemicals and radioactive materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an occurrence, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 