ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and us because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that have been made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. VISA ‘s decision to discontinue the use of the current version of our holographic magnetic tape could impact our results of operations and financial condition in 2006. We are currently working on the development of a second generation of holographic magnetic tape, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing such a product, or that any such product will be acceptable to our customers. Further there can be no assurance that a competitor of ours will not develop an acceptable product that is adopted by our customers. If we are unable to meet the requirements of card providers for the holographic magnetic stripe, the loss of sales associated with this holographic magnetic stripe could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to claims arising from the suspension of sales of our holographic magnetic tape product. VISA has recommended to its members that cards bearing the holographic magnetic tape product already in the market be replaced as soon as practical. Additionally, as a result of VISA’s notification to financial institutions and authorized card manufacturers, ABNH has received communications from customers seeking to address the status and disposition of their holographic magnetic tape inventory and orders. In its correspondence to ABNH relating to our holographic magnetic tape, VISA has stated to us its view that “a remediation program for impacted stakeholders may be necessary” and that VISA would seek indemnification from ABNH for such costs and/or claims. ABNH may in turn seek indemnification from us. We have been evaluating VISA’s actions and claims. In the event that ABNH or other third parties assert claims against us, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 17 Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate and the price of our common stock may change in response to those fluctuations. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on factors such as: • the impact of the VISA decision on our business, • timing of customer orders, • customer business cycles, • cancellation or expiration of customer contracts or programs, • inventory replenishment, • increased competition, • changes in our and our competitors’ pricing policies, • changes in the cost of materials or labor, • cost and availability of the services of subcontractors, • costs of recruiting or relocating personnel, • increased research and development expenses, • expenses associated with litigation, • market acceptance of our products, • the time required for customer testing and evaluation, • costs associated with implementing changes in operations, • investments in new technology and equipment, • changes in facility requirements, • changes in our business strategy, and • general economic factors. Because our revenues and operating results may fluctuate, it is possible that in some future quarter, our revenues or operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decrease. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we may not be able to forecast or respond to commercial trends. Our growth strategy and future success is dependent upon commercial acceptance of products incorporating technologies we have developed and are continuing to develop. Technological tends have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our business. Our results of operations and ability to remain competitive are largely based upon our ability to accurately anticipate customer and market requirements. Our success in developing, introducing and selling new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including: • accurate technology and product selection; • timely and efficient completion of product design and treatment; • timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing processes; • product performance; and • product support and effective sales and marketing. We may not be able to accurately forecast or respond to commercial and technological trends in the industries in which we operate. Technological changes, process improvements, or operating improvements that could adversely affect us include: • development of new technologies by our competitors; • changes in product requirements of our customers; and • improvements in the alternatives to our technologies. We may not have sufficient funds to devote to research and development, or our research and development efforts may not be successful in developing products in the time, or with the characteristics, necessary to meet customer needs, if we do not adapt to such changes or improvements, our competitive position, operations and prospects would be materially affected. 18 If we are unable to continue to introduce new products, our results will be adversely affected. We believe our future growth depends significantly upon our ability to successfully introduce new products. We are subject to the risks inherent in the development of new products, including risks associated with attracting a customer base, and manufacturing products in a cost-effective and profitable manner. Product development is based on our expectations regarding future growth of target markets, but it is difficult to anticipate the direction of future growth and to design products to meet the needs of a changing market. Changes in technology could render our products less attractive. If the market for our new products fail to grow, or grows more slowly than anticipated, we may be unable to realize the expected return on our investment in product development, and our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If we are not able to successfully protect our intellectual property our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is dependent to some extent upon our proprietary technology. We utilize a combination of patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements, as well as restricted access and other forms of intellectual property protection to safeguard certain of our proprietary technology and processes. We also hold certain trademarks with respect to certain products and services. We cannot be certain as to the degree of protection offered by any of our patents or as to the likelihood that patents will be issued for any of our pending applications. Certain of our patents have expired and others have been declared invalid in the past. Other patents will expire over the next several years. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how. In addition, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and/or loss of market share. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of our patents or of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business may suffer if we are sued for infringement or cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. In the past, third-parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, infringement by our products. Any such claims, with or without merit, could result in significant litigation costs and diversion of management attention, and could require us to enter into royalty and license agreements that may be disadvantageous to us or cause other harm to our business. If litigation is successful against us, it could result in invalidation of our proprietary rights and liability for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We face competition or potential competition from companies with greater revenues then ours, and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our business could be harmed. We face substantial competition from established companies in many of the markets we serve. Some of our competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources, broader product offerings and service capabilities and larger installed customer bases than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or market developments by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products which could impair sales of our products. In addition, their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to: • better withstand periodic economic downturns; • compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology; • more quickly develop enhancements to and new generations of products; and • more effectively retain existing customers and obtain new customers. 19 In addition, new companies may in the future enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: • performance of our products; • quality of our products; • reliability of our products; • our ability to ship products on the schedule required; • our success in developing new products; • existing market and economic conditions; and • price of our products and our competitors’ products. Many of these factors are outside our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share, and inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development of new products. Since a significant percentage of our sales are derived from overseas customers, our exports and business may be subject to some risks related to doing business internationally. Sales derived from customers outside the United States were 44.5% of our total sales in 2005 and 46.6% of our total sales in 2004. Our international sales are subject to risks, including: • U.S. and international regulatory requirements and policy changes, • exchange rate fluctuations, • political and economic instability, • national and regional labor strikes, • difficulties in accounts receivable collection, • tariffs and other barriers, and • difficulty in attracting, retaining and managing international representatives. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international sales, and consequently our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our principal stockholder controls all matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change of control that you might otherwise approve. Roger F. Hruby, our principal stockholder, in the aggregate beneficially owns approximately 59% of our common stock as of March 31, 2006. Consequently, he has the ability to: • elect a majority of the members of the board of directors of our Company; • determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of certain matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and • subject to applicable law, prevent or cause a change in control of our Company. Such control could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination. 20 We are subject to many environmental and safety regulations that may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as, under some environmental laws, the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require us to modify our facilities or operations. Accordingly, environmental or regulatory matters may cause us to incur significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. In addition, we could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future environmental or safety laws. Capital expenditures and costs relating to environmental or safety matters will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose requirements on our operations. Capital expenditures and costs beyond those currently anticipated may therefore be required under existing or future environmental or safety laws. Furthermore, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our properties or at off-site locations where we disposed of or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials or from disposal activities that pre-dated our purchase of our businesses. We may therefore incur additional costs and expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to address all such known and unknown situations under existing and future environmental laws. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”. We can provide no assurance that our internal control over our financial reporting will be effective when Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 becomes applicable to us. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued thereunder, our management is required to conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year-end, beginning December 31, 2007. From that point, we will be required to include in our annual report on Form 10-K a report on our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will also issue an audit report on management’s assessment and on our internal control over financial reporting. We have undertaken significant efforts in preparation for the requirements of Section 404. However, given the complexities and inherent risks associated with the operation of internal control over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective when Section 404 becomes applicable to us. Moreover, we can provide no assurance as to any matters that might be reported in our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit report. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could result in a lower trading price for our securities. Loss of key members of our management could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued employment and performance of our senior executives and other key members of management. If any of these individuals resigns or becomes unable to continue in his present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations and our ability to implement our growth strategies could be materially disrupted. We generally do not have employment agreements with, and we do not maintain any “key man” life insurance for, any of our executive officers. 21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 