Item 1A. Risk Factors We have experienced significant losses and expect to incur losses in the future. As a result, the amount of our cash and cash equivalents has materially declined. If we continue to incur significant losses and are unable to access sufficient working capital from our operations, our currently available credit facilities, or through additional equity financings, we will be unable to fund future operations and operate as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued us a going concern qualification for fiscal 2008 as a result of these conditions. We have incurred substantial net losses in recent years. As reflected in our financial statements, we have experienced net losses of $10.9 million, $21.0 million and $17.1 million in our fiscal years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, we have used cash in operations of $12.0 million, $12.3 million and $15.9 million for our fiscal years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of October 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $158.9 million; cash and cash equivalents of $2.3 million, working capital of $2.8 million, and long-term liabilities of $1.6 million. 15 To supplement our available cash, on May 28, 2008, we entered into a Ninth Amendment to our previously expired borrowing arrangement with Silicon Valley Bank. We also entered into an Eleventh Amendment to the same borrowing arrangement on October 10, 2008 to modify the timing of disbursements and repayments of the funds. These amendments provide us with up to $6.0 million in borrowing capacity subject to certain conditions as described below. As of October 31, 2008, we have borrowed $1.5 million on these facilities. We believe that our current cash balances combined with borrowing available under our credit facility will allow us to continue operations through March 2009, at which time we will need to either raise additional financing or cease operations. The $6.0 million in borrowing capacity consists of: § a $3.0 million Growth Capital term loan, to be funded one half in June 2008 and one half no later than March 31, 2009, subject to certain conditions. Interest accrues at the Bank prime rate plus 2.25% and is payable on the outstanding principal balance monthly from the date of the first borrowing. The principal balance of the Growth Capital loan is repayable in equal installments over thirty-three (33) months beginning January 1, 2009; and § a $3.0 million revolving credit facility based upon eligible receivables balance as defined by the Eleventh Amendment, which is payable monthly. Interest on the revolving credit facility is payable monthly at Bank prime plus 0.50% per annum, and may increase to Bank prime plus 1.5% if we fail to meet the Quick Ratio Test as defined in the Ninth Amendment. The revolving line of credit matures in twenty-four (24) months from the date of signing. The revolving line of credit is subject to certain financial covenants, which cross over to the Growth Capital Loan in the event that both facilities have an outstanding balance on any given month. In September 2008, we sold our non-therapeutic product line, which resulted in immediate cash proceeds of $3.0 million, a note receivable of $2.0 million due in January 2009 and an additional $1.0 million to be paid to the Company in September 2009 if certain milestones are achieved. We will no longer generate revenue from the sales of our non-therapeutic products and our revenue will be entirely based on sales of our therapeutic products. The negative cash flow we have sustained has materially reduced our working capital. Continued negative cash flow could materially and negatively impact our ability to fund future operations and continue to operate as a going concern. Management has taken and continues to take actions intended to improve our results. These actions include sales of certain product lines, reducing cash operating expenses, developing new technologies and products, improving existing technologies and products, and expanding into new geographical markets. The availability of necessary working capital, however, is subject to many factors beyond our control, including our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to increase revenues and to reduce further our losses from operations, economic cycles, market acceptance of our products, competitors’ responses to our products, the intensity of competition in our markets, and the level of demand for our products. The amount of working capital that we will need in the future will also depend on our efforts and many factors, including: § Our ability to successfully develop, market and sell our products, including the successful further development and launch of our new ClearPath device for treatment of breast cancer; § Continued scientific progress in our discovery and research programs; § Levels of selling and marketing expenditures that will be required to launch future products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace for both existing and new products; § Structuring our businesses in alignment with their revenues to reduce operating losses; § Levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; § Level of capital expenditures; § Acquisition or development of other businesses, technologies or products; § The time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; § The costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; and § The potential need to develop, acquire or license new technologies and products. 16 We also may be required to curtail our expenses or to take steps that could hurt our future performance, including but not limited to, the termination of major portions of our research and development activities, the premature sale of some or all of our assets or product lines on undesirable terms, merger with or acquisition by another company on unsatisfactory terms or the cessation of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts or that any or some of the above factors will not negatively impact us. Future financing transactions will likely have dilutive and other negative effects on our existing stockholders. In January 2008, we completed a private placement of 12,601,628 shares of our common stock that also included 630,081 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants. This financing resulted in significant dilution of our current stockholders, such that the three participants in the private placement transaction now control in excess of 70% of our outstanding common stock. If we raise additional equity financing in the future, the percentage ownership held by existing stockholders would be further reduced, and existing stockholders may experience further significant dilution. In addition, new investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges that differ from, or are senior to, those of our existing shareholders, such as warrants in addition to the securities purchased and other protections against future dilutive transactions. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. These conditions not only limit our access to capital but also make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we may not continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil of the worldwide economy. Our common stock is subject to continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, including a minimum bid price requirement. Our ability to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market or if we are unable to transfer our listing to another stock market. Currently and at points during the past 52 weeks, the minimum bid price for our common stock listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market has closed below the $1.00 minimum. On August 20, 2008, we received notice from NASDAQ indicating that for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) (the “Rule”). We had 180 calendar days, or until February 17, 2009, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price level. However, given the current extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ suspended the bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements through Monday, April 20, 2009. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ filed an immediately effective rule change with the SEC, and this rule change was extended in December 2008, such that companies will not be cited for any new concerns related to bid price or market value of publicly held shares deficiencies. We are currently in a bid price compliance period and as a result of this rule suspension and extension, we will have until August 28, 2009 to regain compliance by achieving a $1.00 closing bid price for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. 17 Beyond the risk of delisting arising from the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement, our common stock is subject to a number of other requirements under Maintenance Standards for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, including but not limited to, a $2.5 million minimum stockholders’ equity under Maintenance Standard 1, as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3). On September 22, 2008, we received a notice from NASDAQ indicating that we do not comply with the minimum $2.5 million stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3). In addition, we do not comply with the minimum $35.0 million market value of listed securities or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years for continued listing. However, after including the results of the September 2008 sale of certain assets from our non therapeutic product line, we did have sufficient stockholders' equity to satisfy Maintenance Standard 1. On October 24, 2008, we received a letter from NASDAQ indicating we were once again in compliance with the minimum $2.5 million stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our common stock may be eligible to trade on the American Stock Exchange, the OTC Bulletin Board maintained by NASDAQ, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets where an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, although there can be no assurance that our common stock will be eligible for trading on any alternative exchanges or markets. In addition, delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities. We will need to raise additional financing in fiscal 2009 to fund our continuing operations, support the launch and further development of ClearPath, and other activities. Delisting from NASDAQ also would make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price. It would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Success of our ClearPath breast brachytherapy device will be dependent upon a variety of factors. We previously have announced the introduction of ClearPath, a new brachytherapy device for the treatment of breast cancer. Because we believe that our ClearPath device has certain technical and market advantages, we expect that this device may generate significant revenues in the future. There are a number of factors which could affect our ability to achieve this goal, including: § The successful further development of a commercially marketable device; § The successful launch of a marketing and sales program for this device; § Our ability to protect our intellectual property through patents and licenses and avoid infringement of intellectual property of others; § The successful completion of technical improvements to the device; § Our ability to successfully manufacture production quantities of the device; § The acceptance of the device by physicians and health professionals as an alternative to other approaches to delivering radiation to a cancer patient’s breast tissue or to other products using a similar approach but employing different competitive technologies; and § Our ability to hire and train a direct sales force to sell the device. We may encounter insurmountable obstacles or incur substantially greater costs and delays than anticipated in the development process. From time to time, we have experienced setbacks and delays in our research and development efforts and may encounter further obstacles in the course of the development of additional technologies, products and services. We may not be able to overcome these obstacles or may have to expend significant additional funds and time. Technical obstacles and challenges we encounter in our research and development process may result in delays in or abandonment of product commercialization, may substantially increase the costs of development, and may negatively affect our results of operations. 18 New product developments in the healthcare industry are inherently risky and unpredictable. These risks include: • failure to prove feasibility; • time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; • timing and cost of regulatory approvals and clearances; • competitors' responses to new product developments; • manufacturing cost overruns; • failure to obtain customer acceptance and payment; and • excess inventory caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products. The high cost of technological innovation is coupled with rapid and significant change in the regulations governing the products that compete in our market, by industry standards that could change on short notice, and by the introduction of new products and technologies that could render existing products and technologies uncompetitive. We may not be able to successfully develop new products or enhancements to our existing products. Without successful new product introductions, our revenues likely will continue to suffer, as competition erodes average selling prices. Even if customers accept new or enhanced products, the costs associated with making these products available to customers, as well as our ability to obtain capital to finance such costs, could reduce or prevent us from increasing our operating margins. We are subject to intense competition. Our competitors have greater resources than we do. As a result, we cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop superior technologies, larger more experienced sales forces or otherwise be able to compete against us more effectively. If we fail to maintain our competitive position in key product areas, we may lose or be unable to develop significant sources of revenue. We believe that our Prospera brachytherapy seeds, our SurTRAK strands and needles and our new ClearPath device can generate substantial revenues in the future. We will need to continue to develop enhancements to these products and improvements on our core technologies in order to compete effectively. Rapid change and technological innovation characterize the marketplace for medical products, and our competitors could develop technologies that are superior to our products or that render such products obsolete. We anticipate that expenditures for research and development will continue to be significant. The domestic and foreign markets for radiation therapy are highly competitive. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantial installed bases of products and significantly greater financial, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. Competition may increase as emerging and established companies enter the field. In addition, the marketplace could conclude that the tasks our products were designed to perform are no longer elements of a generally accepted treatment regimen. This could result in us having to reduce production volumes or discontinue production of one or more of our products. Because we are a small company with limited resources, there is a risk that potential customers will purchase products from larger manufacturers, even if our products are technically superior, based on the perception that a larger, more established manufacturer may offer greater certainty of continued product improvements, support and service, which could cause our revenues to decline. In addition, many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater sales, marketing and financial resources than we do. Developments by any of these or other companies or advances by medical researchers at universities, government facilities or private laboratories could render our products obsolete. Moreover, companies with substantially greater financial resources, as well as more extensive experience in research and development, the regulatory approval process, manufacturing and marketing, may be in a better position to seize market opportunities created by technological advances in our industry. 19 We are highly dependent on our direct sales organization, which is small compared to many of our competitors. Also, we may need to hire and train additional sales representatives to sell our ClearPath device. Any failure to build, manage and maintain our direct sales organization could negatively affect our revenues. Our current domestic direct sales force is small relative to many of our competitors. There is intense competition for skilled sales and marketing employees, particularly for people who have experience in the radiation oncology market. Accordingly, we could find it difficult to hire or retain skilled individuals to sell our products. Any failure to build our direct sales force could adversely affect our growth and our ability to meet our revenue goals. As a result of our relatively small sales force the need to hire and train additional sales representatives to sell our ClearPath device, and the intense competition for skilled sales and marketing employees, our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. If we are not successful in our direct sales and marketing, our sales revenue and results of operations are likely to be materially adversely affected. We depend partially on our relationships with distributors and other industry participants to market some of our products, and if these relationships are discontinued or if we are unable to develop new relationships, our revenues could decline. Our 2005 agreement with Oncura, Inc. and our 2007 agreement with Core Oncology, Inc. for distribution of our Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds are important components of that business. If we are not able to maintain our existing relationships with our agents and distributors for the sale of our Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds or these third parties do not successfully distribute our products, our revenues will be adversely impacted. We depend partially on our relationship with a large customer that comprises more than 10% of our revenue. If this relationship is discontinued or if we are unable to develop new relationships, our revenues could decline. Our sales to Core Oncology, Inc. comprised more than 10% of our revenue for fiscal 2008 We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with our large customers for the sale of our Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds. The cost of defending lawsuits for product-related liabilities could be prohibitive to us. The testing, marketing and sale of human healthcare products entail an inherent exposure to product liability claims. Third parties may successfully assert product liability claims against us. Although we currently have insurance covering claims against our products, we may not be able to maintain this insurance at acceptable cost in the future, if at all. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover particularly large claims. Significant product liability claims could result in large and unexpected expenses as well as a costly distraction of management resources and potential negative publicity and reduced demand for our products. Currently, our revenues are primarily derived from products predominantly used in the treatment of tumors of the prostate. If we do not obtain wider acceptance of our products to treat other types of cancer, our sales could fail to increase and we could fail to achieve our desired growth rate possibly causing us to cease operations. Currently, our brachytherapy products are used almost exclusively for the treatment of prostate cancer. Further research, clinical data and years of experience will likely be required before there can be broad acceptance for the use of our brachytherapy products for additional types of cancer. If our products do not become more widely accepted in treating other types of cancer, our sales could fail to increase or could decrease possibly causing us to cease operations. 20 We rely on several sole source suppliers and a limited number of other suppliers to provide raw materials and significant components used in our products. A material interruption in supply could prevent or limit our ability to accept and fill orders for our products. We depend upon a limited number of outside unaffiliated suppliers for our radioisotopes. Our principal suppliers are Nordion International, Inc. and Eckert & Ziegler AG. We also utilize other commercial isotope manufacturers located in the United States and overseas. To date, we have been able to obtain the required radioisotopes for our products without any significant delays or interruptions. Currently, we rely exclusively upon Nordion International for our supply of the Palladium-103 isotope; if Nordion International ceases to supply isotopes in sufficient quantity to meet our needs, there may not be adequate alternative sources of supply. If we lose any of these suppliers (including any single-source supplier), we would be required to find and enter into supply arrangements with one or more replacement suppliers. Obtaining alternative sources of supply could involve significant delays and other costs and these supply sources may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. Any disruption of supplies could delay delivery of our products that use radioisotopes, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could result in lost or deferred sales. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may be unable to meet our growth and revenue needs. Our success is materially dependent on a limited number of key employees, and, in particular, the continued services of John B. Rush, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Brett L. Scott, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Our future business and financial results could be adversely affected if the services of Messrs. Rush, Scott or other key employees cease to be available. To our knowledge, none of our key employees have any plans to retire or leave in the near future. Our future success and ability to grow our business will depend in part on the continued service of our skilled personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. Although some employees are bound by a limited non-competition agreement that they sign upon employment, few of our employees are bound by employment contracts, and it is difficult to find qualified personnel, particularly medical physicists and customer service personnel, who are willing to travel extensively. We compete for qualified personnel with medical equipment manufacturers, universities and research institutions. Because the competition for these personnel is intense, costs related to compensation may increase significantly. Even when we are able to hire a qualified medical physicist, engineer or other technical person, there is a significant training period of up to several months before that person is fully capable of performing the functions we need. This could limit our ability to expand our business. The medical device industry is characterized by competing intellectual property, and we could be sued for violating the intellectual property rights of others, which may require us to withdraw certain products from the market. The medical device industry is characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of patent litigation actions is often uncertain. Our competitors could assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by United States or foreign patent rights held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there could be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which could later result in issued patents that our products infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more of our products could inadvertently be infringing of which we are unaware. While we do not believe that any of our products, services or technologies infringe any valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of third-party intellectual property rights that relate to our products, services or technologies. As the number of competitors in the radiation oncology market grows, and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us going forward increases. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources if we have to assert our patent rights against others. An unfavorable outcome to any litigation could harm us. In addition, we may not be able to detect infringement or may lose competitive position in the market before we do so. 21 To address patent infringement or other intellectual property claims, we may have to enter into license agreements and technology cross-licenses or agree to pay royalties at a substantial cost to us. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses. A valid claim against us and our failure to obtain a license for the technology at issue could prevent us from selling our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial results and future prospects. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights do not adequately cover the technologies we employ, or if such rights are declared to be invalid, other companies may take advantage of our technology ideas and more effectively compete directly against us, or we might be forced to discontinue selling certain products. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and enforce patent protections for our products and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We rely on U.S. and foreign patents to protect our intellectual property. We also rely significantly on trade secrets and know-how that we seek to protect. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by filing patent applications for new features and products we develop. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, independent contractors and corporate partners, and we seek to control access to our intellectual property and the distribution of our products, documentation and other proprietary information. We plan to continue these methods to protect our intellectual property and our products. These measures may afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, making the outcome uncertain. Competitors could also bring actions or counterclaims attempting to invalidate our patents. Even if we are successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be costly and could divert our management's attention. Due to our limited resources, the costs of such litigation may exceed our ability to pay and we may not be able to adequately enforce our intellectual property rights or defend our patents. In 2006, we licensed intellectual property which was later the subject of litigation brought by WorldWide Medical Technologies in U.S. District Court against both us and our former employee, Richard Terwilliger, who was previously our Vice-President of New Product Development. This intellectual property relates to our brachytherapy business, specifically, certain needle-loading and stranding technologies. While we do not believe that we have any liability in this matter, and are vigorously defending ourselves in the litigation, we cannot predict what effect an adverse result from this litigation would have on our future sales of the products at issue. We use radioactive materials which are subject to stringent regulation and which may subject us to liability if accidents occur. We manufacture and process radioactive materials which are subject to stringent regulation. We operate under licenses issued by the California Department of Health which are renewable every eight years. We received a renewal of our licenses for our North Hollywood and Chatsworth facilities in 2007. California is one of the "Agreement States," which are so named because the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or NRC, has granted such states regulatory authority over radioactive materials, provided such states have regulatory standards meeting or exceeding the standards imposed by the NRC. Most users of our products must obtain licenses issued by the state in which they reside (if they are Agreement States) or the NRC. Use licenses are also required by some of the foreign jurisdictions in which we may seek to market our products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these radioactive materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. We believe we carry reasonably adequate insurance to cover us in the event of any damages resulting from the use of hazardous materials. 22 As part of the sale of our Non-Therapeutic Product Line in September 2008, we closed our North Hollywood facility and have agreed to decommission the site at our expense . While we believe that our current reserves for decommissioning costs are adequate, the actual costs may exceed such estimate. We expect that the decommissioning process will be completed in approximately March 2009. Healthcare reforms, changes in health-care policies and unfavorable changes to third-party reimbursements for use of our products could cause declines in the revenues of our products, and could hamper the introduction of new products. Hospitals and freestanding clinics may be less likely to purchase our products if they cannot be assured of receiving favorable reimbursement for treatments using our products from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans. Generally speaking, Medicare pays hospitals, freestanding clinics and physicians a fixed amount for services using our products, regardless of the costs incurred by those providers in furnishing the services. Such providers may perceive the set reimbursement amounts as inadequate to compensate for the costs incurred and thus may be reluctant to furnish the services for which our products are designed. Moreover, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical procedures or limiting or prohibiting reimbursement for some services or devices, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels for our products. There is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we can provide no assurance that procedures using our products will qualify for reimbursement from third-party payors or that reimbursement rates will not be reduced or eliminated. A reduction in or elimination of third-party payor reimbursement for treatments using our products would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Furthermore, any federal and state efforts to reform government and private healthcare insurance programs could significantly affect the purchase of healthcare services and products in general and demand for our products in particular. We are unable to predict whether potential reforms will be enacted, whether other healthcare legislation or regulation affecting the business may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The federal Medicare program currently reimburses hospitals and freestanding clinics for brachytherapy treatments. Medicare reimbursement amounts typically are reviewed and adjusted at least annually. Medicare reimbursement policies are reviewed and revised on an ad hoc basis. Adjustments could be made to these reimbursement policies or amounts, which could result in reduced or no reimbursement for brachytherapy services. Changes in Medicare reimbursement policies or amounts affecting hospitals and freestanding clinics could negatively affect market demand for our products. Medicare reimbursement amounts for seeding are currently significantly less than for RP. Although seeding generally requires less physician time than RP, lower reimbursement amounts, when combined with physician familiarity with RP, may create disincentives for urologists to perform seeding. Private third-party payors often adopt Medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts. As such, Medicare reimbursement policy and payment amount changes concerning our products also could be extended to private third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts and could affect demand for our products in those markets as well. Acceptance of our products in foreign markets could be affected by the availability of adequate reimbursement or funding, as the case may be, within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement, funding and healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We may not obtain third-party reimbursement with respect to treatments using our products under any foreign reimbursement system. 23 Problems with any of these reimbursement systems that adversely affect demand for our products could cause our revenues from our products to decline and our business to suffer. Also, we, our distributors and healthcare providers performing radiation therapy procedures are subject to state and federal fraud and abuse laws prohibiting kickbacks and, in the case of physicians, patient self-referrals. We may be subjected to civil and criminal penalties if we or our agents violate any of these prohibitions. We are subject to extensive government regulation applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products. Complying with the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies is an expensive and time-consuming process, whose outcome can be difficult to predict. If we fail or are delayed in obtaining regulatory approvals or fail to comply with applicable regulations, we may be unable to market and distribute our products or may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. We and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation of the manufacture and distribution of our products, both in the United States and in foreign countries. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and changes to or failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or adoption of new laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business. In the United States, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the FDA and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the State of California, to ensure such devices are safe and effective. Such regulations, which include the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act, and regulations promulgated by the FDA, govern the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, possession, marketing, disposal, clinical investigations involving humans, sale and marketing of medical devices, post-market surveillance, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation producing devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. State regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. Our brachytherapy seeds constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. Future products in any of our business segments may constitute medical devices and be subject to regulation as such. These laws require that manufacturers adhere to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and effective. Under the FDC Act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with requirements applicable to manufacturing practices. In the United States, medical devices are classified into three different categories, over which the FDA applies increasing levels of regulation: Class I, Class II and Class III. The FDA has classified all of our brachytherapy products as Class I devices. Before a new device can be introduced into the United States market, the manufacturer must obtain FDA clearance or approval through either a 510(k) premarket notification or a premarket approval, unless the product is otherwise exempt from the requirements. Class I devices are statutorily exempt from the 510(k) process, unless the device is intended for a use which is of substantial importance in preventing impairment of human health or it presents a potential unreasonable risk of illness or injury. A 510(k) premarket notification clearance will typically be granted for a device that is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed Class I or Class II medical device or a Class III medical device for which the FDA has not yet required submission of a premarket approval. A 510(k) premarket notification must contain information supporting the claim of substantial equivalence, which may include laboratory results or the results of clinical studies. Following submission of a 510(k) premarket notification, a company may not market the device for clinical use until the FDA finds the product is substantially equivalent for a specific or general intended use. FDA clearance generally takes from four to twelve months, but it may take longer, and there is no assurance that the FDA will ultimately grant a clearance. The FDA may determine that a device is not substantially equivalent and require submission and approval of a premarket approval or require further information before it is able to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. 24 Most of the products that we are currently marketing have received clearances from the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process. For any devices already cleared through the 510(k) process, modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a major change in intended use require a new 510(k) submission and a separate FDA determination of substantial equivalence. We have made minor modifications to our products and, using the guidelines established by the FDA, have determined that these modifications do not require us to file new 510(k) submissions. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, we may not be able to sell one or more of our products until the FDA has cleared new 510(k) submissions for these modifications, and there is no assurance that the FDA will ultimately grant a clearance. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain premarket approval process under Section 515 of the FDC. The approval process under Section 515 generally takes from one to three years, but in many cases can take even longer, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Under the premarket approval process, an applicant must generally conduct at least one clinical investigation and submit extensive supporting data and clinical information establishing the safety and effectiveness of the device, as well as extensive manufacturing information. Clinical investigations themselves are typically lengthy and expensive, closely regulated and frequently require prior FDA clearance. Even if clinical investigations are conducted, there is no assurance that they will support the claims for the product. If the FDA requires us to submit a new pre-market notification under Section 510(k) for modifications to our existing products, or if the FDA requires us to go through the lengthier, more rigorous Section 515 pre-market approval process, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or cancelled, which could cause our revenues to be below expectations. In addition to FDA-required market clearances and approvals, our manufacturing operations are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which addresses the quality program requirements, such as a company's management responsibility for the company's quality systems, and good manufacturing practices, product design, controls, methods, facilities and quality assurance controls used in manufacturing, assembly, packing, storing and installing medical devices. Compliance with the QSR is necessary to receive FDA clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for us to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings. There can be no assurance that we will not incur significant costs to comply with these regulations in the future or that the regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our compliance and the compliance by some of our suppliers with applicable regulatory requirements are and will continue to be monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. The FDA makes announced and unannounced inspections to determine compliance with the QSR's and may issue us 483 reports listing instances where we have failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures or Warning Letters which, if not adequately responded to, could lead to enforcement actions against us, including fines, the total shutdown of our production facilities and criminal prosecution. If we or any of our suppliers fail to comply with FDA requirements, the FDA can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: • fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • the recall or seizure of our products; • the imposition of operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • the refusal of our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products; • the withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals already granted; and • criminal prosecution. Similar consequences could arise from our failure, or the failure by any of our suppliers, to comply with applicable foreign laws and regulations. Foreign regulatory requirements vary by country. In general, our products are regulated outside the United States as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the FDA. However, the time and cost required to obtain regulatory approvals from foreign countries could be longer than that required for FDA clearance and the requirements for licensing a product in another country may differ significantly from the FDA requirements. We rely, in part, on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. We may not be able to obtain these approvals without incurring significant expenses or at all, and the failure to obtain these approvals would prevent us from selling our products in the applicable countries. This could limit our sales and growth. 25 Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to penetrate foreign markets, particularly in Asia and Europe. However, we have had limited success in gaining acceptance of our products in foreign markets, where we have limited experience marketing, servicing and distributing our products, and where we will be subject to additional regulatory burdens and other risks. Our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to establish, grow and ultimately maintain our product sales in foreign markets, particularly in Asia and Europe. However, we have limited experience in marketing, servicing and distributing our products in other countries. In fiscal 2007 and 2008, less than 2% of our revenues were derived from sales to customers outside the United States and Canada. Our foreign operations subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, including: § our customers' ability to obtain reimbursement for procedures using our products in foreign markets; § the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign regulatory requirements; § language barriers and other difficulties in providing long-range customer support and service; § longer accounts receivable collection times; § significant currency fluctuations, which could cause our distributors to reduce the number of products they purchase from us because the cost of our products to them could fluctuate relative to the price they can charge their customers; § reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; and § the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute. Our foreign sales of our products could also be adversely affected by export license requirements, the imposition of governmental controls, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, any violation of which could create a substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue transactions that may cause us to experience significant charges to earnings that may adversely affect our stock price and financial condition. We regularly review potential transactions related to technologies, product candidates or product rights and businesses complementary to our business. Such transactions could include mergers, acquisitions, strategic alliances, licensing agreements or co-promotion agreements. Our acquisition of Theseus Imaging Corporation in October 2000 and the acquisition of NOMOS in May 2004 are examples of such transactions. In the future, if we have sufficient available capital, we may choose to enter into such transactions. We may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our business and the process could be expensive and time consuming and may strain our resources. Depending upon the nature of any transaction, we may experience a charge to earnings which could be material. Operating results for a particular period may fluctuate and are difficult to predict. The results of operations for any fiscal quarter or fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of a number of factors. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict. Such factors include the following: § Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than necessary to achieve profitability and, in particular periods, may decline; § Our future sales growth is highly dependent on the successful introduction of our ClearPath device; 26 § Our brachytherapy product lines may experience some variability in revenue due to seasonality. This is primarily due to three major holidays occurring in our first fiscal quarter and the apparent reduction in the number of procedures performed during summer months, which could affect our third fiscal quarter results; § Estimates with respect to the useful life and ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including goodwill and purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions; § As a result of our growth in past periods, our fixed costs have increased. With increased levels of spending and the impact of long-term commitments, we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes; § Acquisitions that result in in-process research and development expenses may be charged fully in an individual quarter; § Changes or anticipated change in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products; § Timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us and by our competitors; § The possibility that unexpected levels of cancellations of orders or backlog may affect certain assumptions upon which we base our forecasts and predictions of future performance; § Changes in the general economic conditions in the regions in which we do business; § Unfavorable outcome of any litigation; and § Accounting adjustments such as those relating to reserves for product recalls, stock option expensing as required under SFAS No. 123R and changes in interpretation of accounting pronouncements Being a public company significantly increases our administrative costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and listing requirements subsequently adopted by NASDAQ in response to Sarbanes-Oxley, have required changes in corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee practices of public companies. These rules, regulations and requirements have significantly increased our legal, financial, compliance and administrative costs, and have made certain other activities more time consuming and costly, as well as requiring substantial time and attention of our senior management. We expect our continued compliance with these and future rules and regulations to continue to require significant resources. These new rules and regulations also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members for our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. Our publicly-filed SEC reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe that our previously-filed SEC reports comply, and while we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Market volatility and fluctuations in our stock price and trading volume may cause sudden decreases in the value of an investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock has historically been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The price of our common stock has ranged between $0.05 and $3.75 per share in the fifty-two week period ended October 31, 2008. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the medical device sector, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Factors such as announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or disappointing results by third parties, as well as market conditions in our industry, may significantly influence the market price of our common stock. Our stock price has also been affected by our own public announcements regarding such things as quarterly sales and earnings. Consequently, events both within and beyond our control may cause shares of our stock to lose their value rapidly. 27 In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by stockholders could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In connection with our January 2008 sale of common stock and accompanying warrants, we have filed resale registration statements covering an aggregate of up to 12,601,628 shares of common stock and 630,081 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants for the benefit of the selling security holders. The actual or anticipated resale by such investors under these registration statements may depress the market price of our common stock. Bulk sales of shares of our common stock in a short period of time could also cause the market price for our shares to decline. Trading volume in our stock has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for fiscal year 2008 was approximately 16,000 shares and the average daily number of transactions was approximately 40 for the same period. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock is made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, our officers, directors and principal stockholders, collectively beneficially own approximately 79% of our common stock in the aggregate. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some provisions of our charter documents may make takeover attempts difficult, which could depress the price of our stock and inhibit your ability to receive a premium price for your shares. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our business, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights and preferences of such shares without stockholder approval. Any such issuance could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our business and may adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. These provisions may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us, adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The payment of cash dividends by us is restricted by our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to you because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 28 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 