Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the risks described below should be carefully considered before deciding to invest in shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. These are risks and uncertainties that management believes are most likely to be material and therefore are most important for an investor to consider. The Company’s business operations and results may also be adversely affected by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to it, or which it currently deems immaterial, or which are similar to those faced by other companies in its industry or business in general. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock could decline. The Company Faces Substantial Competition. The Better Beer category within the United States beer market is highly competitive, due to the large number of craft brewers with similar pricing and target drinkers and gains in market share achieved by imported beers, a number of which are now imported and promoted by the two largest domestic brewing companies, AB InBev and MillerCoors. The Company faces strong competition from these two brewers as they introduce new domestic specialty and “faux craft” brands to many markets and expand their efforts behind existing brands. Imported beers, such as Corona® and Heineken®, continue to compete aggressively in the United States beer market. Samuel Adams is one of the largest brands in the Better Beer category of the United States brewing industry, trailing Corona® and Heineken®. The Company anticipates competition among domestic craft brewers to remain strong, as craft brewers experienced their seventh successive year of growth in 2011 and there were many new startups. In 2011, the Company estimates there are approximately 770 shipping craft breweries, up from approximately 420 craft breweries in 2006. There are also approximately 800 new craft breweries in planning stages that will likely result in an additional 300 or more shipping craft breweries in the next 2 to 3 years. Also, existing craft breweries are building more capacity, expanding geographically, adding more SKUs and styles as distributors and retailers are promoting and making more shelf space available for more craft beer brands. The continued growth in the sales of craft-brewed domestic beers and in imported beers is expected to increase the competition in the Better Beer category within the United States beer market and, as a result, prices and market share of the Company’s products may fluctuate and possibly decline. No assurance can be given that any decline in price would be offset by an increase in market share. The Company’s products, including its Twisted Tea products, also compete generally with other alcoholic beverages. The Company competes with other beer and beverage companies not only for drinker acceptance and loyalty, but also for shelf, cold box and tap space in retail establishments and for marketing focus by the Company’s distributors and their customers, all of which also distribute and sell other beers and alcoholic beverage products. Many of the Company’s competitors, including Corona®, Heineken®, AB InBev and MillerCoors, have substantially greater financial resources, marketing strength and distribution networks than the Company. Moreover, the introduction of new products by competitors that compete directly with the Company’s products or that diminish the importance of the Company’s products to retailers or distributors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Further, in recent years, the beer industry has seen continued consolidation among brewers in order to take advantage of cost savings opportunities for supplies, distribution and operations. Illustrative of this consolidation are the domestic joint venture between SABMiller and Molson Coors and the acquisition of Anheuser Busch by InBev, both of which occurred in 2008, and the acquisition of FEMSA Cerveza by Heineken in 2010. Due to the increased leverage that these combined operations will have, the costs to the Company of competing could increase and the availability of brewing capacity could be reduced. The potential also exists for MillerCoors, AB InBev and Heineken to increase their influence with their distributors, making it difficult for smaller brewers to 12 Table of Contents maintain their market presence or enter new markets. These potential increases in the number and availability of competing brands, the costs to compete, reductions in contract brewing capacity and decreases in distribution support and opportunities may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. There Is No Assurance of Continued Growth. The Company’s future growth may be limited by both its ability to continue to increase its market share in domestic and international markets, including those markets that may be dominated by one or more regional or local craft breweries, and by the growth in the craft-brewed beer market and the Better Beer market. The development of new products by the Company may lead to reduced sales in the Company’s other products, including its flagship Samuel Adams Boston Lager. The Company’s future growth may also be limited by its ability to meet production goals at the Company’s owned breweries, its ability to enter into new brewing contracts with third party-owned breweries on commercially acceptable terms or the availability of suitable production capacity at third party-owned breweries, should production at the Company’s owned breweries miss targets, and its ability to obtain sufficient quantities of certain ingredients and packaging materials, such as hops and bottles, from suppliers. The Unpredictability and Fluctuation of the Company’s Quarterly Results May Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Its Common Stock. The Company’s Advertising and Promotional Investments May Not be Effective. The Company’s revenues and results of operations have in the past and may in the future vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of the Company’s control and any of which may cause its stock price to fluctuate. As a growth-oriented company, the Company has made, and expects to continue to make, significant advertising and promotional expenditures to enhance its brands. These expenditures may not result in higher sales volume. Variations in the levels of advertising and promotional expenditures have in the past caused, and are expected in the future to continue to cause, variability in the Company’s quarterly results of operations. The Company has in the past made, and expects from time to time in the future to make, significant advertising and promotional expenditures to enhance its brands even though those expenditures may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in a particular quarter or even for the full year, and may not result in increased sales. While the Company attempts to invest only in effective advertising and promotional expenditures, it is difficult to correlate such investments with sales results, and there is no guarantee that the Company’s expenditures will be effective in building brand equity or growing long term sales. In addition, the Company fills orders from its wholesalers who may choose independently to build their inventories or run their inventories down. Such a change in wholesaler inventories is somewhat unpredictable, and can lead to fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly or annual results. Unexpected Events at Company-Owned Breweries, Reduced Availability of Breweries Owned by Others, Increased Complexity of the Company’s Business, or the Expansion Costs of the Company-Owned Breweries Could Have A Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Operations or Financial Results. Prior to 2008, the Company pursued a production strategy that combined the capacity at its brewery Cincinnati, Ohio, acquired in 1997, with significant production arrangements at breweries owned by third parties. The brewing services arrangements with breweries owned by others allowed the Company to utilize excess capacity, providing the Company flexibility, as well as cost advantages over its competitors, while maintaining full control over the brewing process for the Company’s beers. In June 2008 the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of the Pennsylvania Brewery from Diageo North America, Inc. As a result, from 2007 to 2011, the volume of core brands brewed at Company-owned breweries increased from approximately 35% to virtually all of its volume. In 2011, the Company brewed its flagship beer, Samuel Adams Boston Lager, at each of its Company-owned brewing facilities, but at any particular time it may rely on only one brewery for its products other than Samuel Adams Boston Lager. The Company expects to brew almost all of its core brands volume in 2012 at Company-owned breweries located in Breinigsville, Pennsylvania, Cincinnati, Ohio and Boston, Massachusetts, and to have less reliance on brewing services arrangements. This increased reliance on the Company-owned breweries exposes the Company to capacity constraints, as these breweries are operating close to current capacity in peak 13 Table of Contents months. Management believes that it has secured sufficient alternatives for most of its brands and packages in the event that production at any of its brewing locations is interrupted or discontinued; however, the Company may not be able to maintain its current economics if such a disruption were to occur and might experience interruptions to supply. Potential disruptions at breweries include labor issues, governmental action, quality issues, contractual disputes, machinery failures or operational shut downs. The combination of the Company’s recent growth, increased product complexity, and its reliance on its own breweries, continues to increase the operating complexity of the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the Company will effectively manage such increasing complexity, without experiencing operating inefficiencies or control deficiencies. Such inefficiencies or deficiencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The growth of the Company, changes in operating procedures and increased complexity, are also requiring significant capital investment. While the Company has shifted most of its production to its own breweries, it continues to avail itself of capacity at third-party breweries. During 2011, the Company brewed and/or packaged certain products under contract at facilities located in Latrobe, Pennsylvania, Chicago, Illinois and Hammondsport, New York. The Company also has a contract to brew certain products with a brewery located in Eden, North Carolina; however this contract was not activated during 2011 and expires at the end of the first quarter of 2012. In selecting third party breweries for brewing services arrangements, the Company carefully weighs brewery’s (i) capability of utilizing traditional brewing methods and (ii) first rate quality control capabilities throughout brewing, fermentation, finishing and packaging. To the extent that the Company needs to avail itself of third party brewing services arrangement, it exposes itself to higher than planned costs of operating under such contract arrangements than would apply at the Company-owned breweries or an unexpected decline in the brewing capacity available to it, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As the brewing industry continues to consolidate, the financial stability of the breweries owned by others where the Company could brew some of its beers, if necessary, and their ability or willingness to meet the Company’s needs, has become a more significant concern and there are no guarantees that the Company’s brewing needs will be met. The Company continues to work with all of the breweries at which it might brew its products, in an attempt to minimize any potential interruptions. Nevertheless, should an interruption occur, the Company could experience temporary shortfalls in production and/or increased production or distribution costs, and be required to make significant capital investments to secure alternative capacity for certain brands and packages, the combination of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. A simultaneous interruption at several of the Company’s production locations or an unexpected interruption at one of the Company’s breweries would likely cause significant disruption, increased costs and, potentially, lost sales. The Company Is Dependent on Its Distributors. In the United States, where approximately 99% of its beer is sold, the Company sells its beer to independent beer distributors for distribution to retailers and, ultimately, to drinkers. Although the Company currently has arrangements with approximately 400 wholesale distributors, sustained growth will require it to maintain such relationships and possibly enter into agreements with additional distributors. Changes in control or ownership of the current distribution network could lead to less support of the Company’s products. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to maintain or secure additional distributors on terms favorable to the Company. The Company’s distribution agreements are generally terminable by the distributor on short notice. While these distribution agreements contain provisions giving the Company enforcement and termination rights, some state laws prohibit the Company from exercising these contractual rights. The Company’s ability to maintain its existing distribution agreements may be adversely affected by the fact that many of its distributors are reliant on one of the major beer producers for a large percentage of their revenue and, therefore, they may be influenced by such producers. If the Company’s existing distribution agreements are terminated, it may not be able to enter into new distribution agreements on substantially similar terms, which may result in an increase in the costs of distribution. 14 Table of Contents The Company Expects That the Freshest Beer Program Will Adversely Affect Short-term Operating Results and Cash Flow During Implementation and Could Disrupt the Company’s Business. In late 2010, the Company started a Freshest Beer Program with domestic wholesalers in different markets to reduce both the time and temperature the Company’s beers experience at wholesaler warehouses before reaching the market. Historically, wholesalers carry three to five weeks of packaged inventory (usually at ambient temperatures) and three to four weeks of draft inventory. The Company’s goal is to reduce this through better on-time service, forecasting, production planning and cooperation with the wholesalers. At December 31, 2011, the Company had 55 wholesalers participating in the program at various stages of inventory reduction. The Company has 50% of its volume on the Freshest Beer Program and believes this could reach 75% by the end of 2012. The Company successfully reduced the inventories of participating wholesalers by approximately two weeks, resulting in fresher beer being delivered to retail. The Freshest Beer Program has resulted in lower shipments of approximately 50,000 case equivalents in 2010 and approximately an additional 133,000 case equivalents in 2011 when measured at the end of the year which historically has been the low point of the year for wholesaler inventories. The wholesaler ordering process has changed significantly for wholesalers that participate in the Freshest Beer Program and has resulted in a shorter period between order placement and shipment and posed much greater challenges for forecasting and production planning. Also, changes to the wholesaler ordering process has increased the complexity of the Company’s revenue recognition for shipments to wholesalers that participate in the Freshest Beer Program. It is possible that the Freshest Beer Program may not be successful, that its costs of implementation may exceed the value realized or that the outcome of such inventory reductions may prove detrimental to the Company’s business trends and ability to execute at retail. The Company may encounter unexpected problems with forecasting, accounting, production and wholesaler cooperation. These issues could lead to shortages of the Company’s products at the wholesaler and retailer levels, result in increased costs, negatively impact wholesaler relations, and/or delay the Company’s implementation of this program. Because the Freshest Beer Program is still in the early stages of implementation and execution, the Company currently cannot predict with any precision the success of this program, the scope of its further implementation in 2012 or the full extent of the costs or business impacts associated with the program that might be incurred. The Company currently believes the program will, in the long term, be beneficial to its business, but there can be no assurances that this will result. The Company is Dependent on Key Suppliers, Including Foreign Sources; Its Dependence on Foreign Sources Creates Foreign Currency Exposure for the Company; The Company’s Use of Natural Ingredients Creates Weather and Crop Reliability and Excess Inventory Exposure for the Company. The Company purchases a substantial portion of the raw materials used in the brewing of its products, including its malt and hops, from a limited number of foreign and domestic suppliers. The Company purchased most of the malt used in the production of its beer from one major supplier during 2010. The Company is exposed to the quality of the barley crop each year, and significant failure of a crop would adversely affect the Company’s costs. The Company believes that there are other malt vendors available that are capable of supplying part of its needs. The Company uses Noble hops for its Samuel Adams lagers. Noble hops are varieties from several specific growing areas recognized for superior taste and aroma properties and include Hallertau-Hallertauer, Tettnang-Tettnanger, Hersbruck-Hersbrucker and Spalt-Spalter from Germany and Saaz-Saazer from the Czech Republic. Noble hops are rare and more expensive than most other varieties of hops. Traditional English hops, namely, East Kent Goldings and English Fuggles, are used in most of the Company’s ales. The Company enters into purchase commitments with four hops dealers, based on the Company’s projected future volumes and brewing needs. The dealers then contract with farmers to meet the Company’s needs. However, the performance and availability of the hops may be materially adversely affected by factors such as adverse weather, the use of fertilizers and pesticides that do not conform to United States regulations, the imposition of export restrictions (such as increased tariffs and duties) and changes in currency exchange rates resulting in increased prices. The Company attempts to maintain over one year’s supply of essential hop varieties on-hand in order to limit the risk of an unexpected reduction in supply. The Company stores its hops in multiple cold storage warehouses to minimize the impact of a catastrophe at a single site. Hops and malt are agricultural products and therefore many outside 15 Table of Contents factors, including weather conditions, farmers rotating out of hops or barley to other crops, government regulations and legislation affecting agriculture, could affect both price and supply. The Company uses special varieties of apples in its ciders that it believes are important for the ciders’ flavor profile. These apples are purchased from European suppliers and include bittersweet apples from France and culinary apples from Italy. There is limited availability of these apples and many outside factors, including weather conditions, farmers rotating from apples to other crops, government regulations and legislation affecting agriculture, could affect both price and supply. Historically, the Company has not experienced material difficulties in obtaining timely delivery from its suppliers, although the Company has had to pay significantly above historical prices to secure supplies when inventory and supply has been tight. Although the Company believes that there are alternate sources available for some of the ingredients and packaging materials, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to acquire such ingredients or packaging materials from substitute sources on a timely or cost effective basis in the event that current suppliers could not adequately fulfill orders. The loss or significant reduction in the capability of a supplier to support the Company’s requirements could, in the short-term, adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position until alternative supply arrangements were secured. The Company’s contracts for hops are payable in Euros for German and Czech hops and in Pounds Sterling for English hops, and therefore, the Company is subject to the risk that the Euro or Pound may fluctuate adversely against the U.S. dollar. The Company has, as a practice, not hedged this exposure, although this practice is regularly reviewed. Significant adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Currently, the cost of hops is approximately 4% of the Company’s product cost. The cost of hops has greatly increased in recent years due to exchange rate changes and the rising market price of hops, and continuation of these trends will impact the Company’s product cost and potentially the Company’s ability to meet demand. The Company also buys some other ingredients from foreign suppliers for which the Company also carries exposure to foreign exchange rate changes. The Company’s accounting policy for hop inventory and purchase commitments is to recognize a loss by establishing a reserve for aged hops and to the extent inventory levels and commitments exceed forecasted needs as determined by the Company’s brewing department. The computation of the excess inventory requires management to make certain assumptions regarding future sales growth, product mix, cancellation costs and supply, among others. Actual results may differ materially from management’s estimates. The Company continues to manage inventory levels and purchase commitments in an effort to maximize utilization of hops on hand and hops under commitment. However, changes in management’s assumptions regarding future sales growth, product mix and hops market conditions could result in future material losses. An Increase in Packaging Costs Could Harm the Company’s Financial Results. The Company maintains multiple sources for the supply of most of its packaging materials, such as shipping cases, six-pack carriers and crowns. Currently, glass and labels for core brands are each supplied by single sources. Although the Company believes that alternative suppliers are available, the loss of the Company’s glass or other packaging materials suppliers could, in the short-term, adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position until alternative supply arrangements were secured. If packaging costs continue to increase, there is no guarantee that such costs can be fully passed along to drinkers through increased prices. The Company has entered into long-term supply agreements for certain packaging materials that have shielded it from some cost increases. These contracts have varying lengths and terms and there is no guarantee that the economics of these contracts can be replicated at time of renewal. The Company’s inability to preserve the current economics on renewal could expose the Company to significant cost increases in future years. The Company initiates bottles deposits in some states and reuses glass bottles that are returned pursuant to certain state bottle recycling laws. The cost associated with reusing the glass varies. The Company believes that it benefits economically from cleaning and reusing these bottles, which result in a lower cost than purchasing new glass, and that it benefits the environment by the reduction in landfill usage, the reduction of usage of raw 16 Table of Contents materials and the lower utility costs for reusing bottles versus producing new bottles. The economics of using recycled glass varies based on the cost of collection, sorting and handling, retailer, distributor and glass dealer behavior, the availability of equipment and service providers that will clean bottles for reuse, and may be adversely affected by changes in state regulation. There is no guarantee that the current economics of using returned glass will continue, or that the Company will continue its current used glass practices. An Increase in Energy Costs Could Harm the Company’s Financial Results. In the last five years, the Company has experienced significant increases in direct and indirect energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise. Increasing energy costs would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs, including increases in the cost of ingredients and supplies. The Company’s future operating expenses and margins could be dependent on its ability to manage the impact of such cost increases. If energy costs continue to increase, there is no guarantee that such costs can be fully passed along to drinkers through increased prices. The Company’s Operations are Subject to Certain Operating Hazards. The Company Was Involved in a Product Recall in 2008 and There Is No Guarantee That Other Contamination Problems Will Not Develop That Could Harm the Company’s Business. The Company’s operations are subject to certain hazards and liability risks faced by all brewers, such as potential contamination of ingredients or products by bacteria or other external agents that may be wrongfully or accidentally introduced into products or packaging. As discussed elsewhere, the Company announced a voluntary product recall of certain glass bottles of its Samuel Adams® products during 2008. The recall resulted from routine quality control inspections where glass inclusions were detected in certain bottles of beer. The Company substantially completed the recall process during 2008. While the Company does not anticipate repetition of such problems, the Company’s operations are subject to a range of operating hazards which include product contamination, the occurrence of which could result in unexpected costs to the Company, and in the case of a costly product recall, potentially serious damage to the Company’s reputation for product quality, as well as claims for product liability. The Company is Subject to Existing and Potential Additional Regulation and Taxation, Which Can Impose Burdens on Its Operations and Narrow the Markets for Its Products. The manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages is a business that is highly regulated and taxed at the federal, state and local levels. The Company’s operations may be subject to more restrictive regulations and increased taxation by federal, state and local governmental agencies than are those of non-alcohol related businesses. For instance, brewery and wholesale operations require various federal, state and local licenses, permits and approvals. In addition, some states prohibit wholesalers and retailers from holding an interest in any supplier such as the Company. Violation of such regulations can result in the loss or revocation of existing licenses by the wholesaler, retailer and/or supplier. The loss or revocation of any existing licenses, permits or approvals, failure to obtain any additional or new licenses, permits or approvals, when required, or the failure to obtain approval for the transfer of any existing permits or licenses, could have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company to conduct its business. Because of the many and various state and federal licensing and permitting requirements, there is a risk that one or more regulatory authorities could determine that the Company has not complied with applicable licensing or permitting regulations, paid the appropriate excise taxes or does not maintain the approvals necessary for it to conduct business within their respective jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that any such regulatory action would not have a material adverse effect upon the Company or its operating results. Increasing the federal and/or state excise tax on alcoholic beverages, or certain types of alcoholic beverages, such as flavored malt beverages, is frequently proposed in various jurisdictions either to increase revenues or discourage purchase by underage drinkers. If adopted, these measures could affect some or all of the Company’s products. If federal or state excise taxes are increased, the Company may have to raise prices to maintain present profit margins. The Company does not necessarily believe that a price increase due to increased taxes will reduce unit sales, but the actual effect will depend on the amount of any increase, general economic conditions and other 17 Table of Contents factors. Higher taxes may reduce overall demand for beer, thus negatively impacting sales of the Company’s products. States have also been reviewing the state tax treatment for FMB’s which could result in increased costs for the Company and decreased sales. Further federal or state regulation may be forthcoming that could limit distribution and sales of alcohol products. Such regulation might reduce the Company’s ability to sell its products at retail and at wholesale and could severely impact the Company’s business. Changes in Public Attitudes and Drinker Tastes Could Harm the Company’s Business. Regulatory Changes in Response to Public Attitudes Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business. The alcoholic beverage industry has become the subject of considerable societal and political attention in recent years, due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including drunk driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol, including alcoholism. As an outgrowth of these concerns, the possibility exists that advertising by beer producers could be restricted, that additional cautionary labeling or packaging requirements might be imposed, that further restrictions on the sale of alcohol might be imposed or that there may be renewed efforts to impose increased excise or other taxes on beer sold in the United States. The domestic beer industry, other than Better Beers, has experienced a slight decline in shipments over the last ten years. The Company believes that this slower growth is due to both declining alcohol consumption per person in the population and increased competition from wine and spirits companies. If beer consumption in general were to come into disfavor among domestic drinkers, or if the domestic beer industry were subjected to significant additional governmental regulations, the Company’s business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, there has been a recent focus by state and federal authorities on caffeinated alcoholic beverages. In November 2010, in response to intense media attention regarding the misuse of high alcohol malt beverages with added caffeine that are marketed as energy drinks, the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) informed producers of these products that it has not approved the use of caffeine as an additive in alcoholic beverages and thus, such beverages can be lawfully marketed only if their use is subject to prior FDA approval or is otherwise generally recognized as safe. As a result, several producers have reformulated their products to remove the added caffeine. The Company’s Twisted Tea products and certain other craft styles contain naturally-occurring, but not added, caffeine, so the recent FDA pronouncements do not apply. Nevertheless, there is an inherent risk that the concern about added caffeine in alcoholic beverages could subsequently be applied to naturally occurring caffeine, adversely affecting the Company’s products in the future. In addition, this regulatory attention to caffeinated alcoholic beverages included concerns about the availability of malt beverages in larger size single serve containers, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell certain of its beers and flavored malt beverages in certain single serve packages. The Company Has Been Involved in Various Litigation Matters in the Past and there Is No Guarantee that Other Litigation Will Not Develop that Could Harm the Company’s Business. As a result of a dispute arising from the change in ownership of High Falls Brewing Company, LLC (“High Falls”), with which the Company had a brewing services agreement, the Company initiated arbitration proceedings for breach of contract against High Falls and its successor organizations and equity owner in 2010. In January 2011, the arbitrator issued an award of approximately $1.3 million in damages and expenses to be paid by High Falls, although the likelihood of collection of such award is in doubt. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings below. In general, while the Company believes it conducts its business appropriately in accordance with laws, regulations and industry guidelines, claims, whether or not meritorious, could be asserted against the Company that might adversely impact the Company’s results. See Item 3 — Legal Proceedings below. The Class B Shareholder Has Significant Influence over the Company The Company’s Class A Common Stock is not entitled to any voting rights, except for the right as a class to approve certain mergers and charter and by-law amendments and to elect a minority of the directors of the Company. Consequently, the election of a majority of the Company’s directors and all other matters requiring stockholder approval are decided by C. James Koch, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, as the current holder of 100% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Class B Common Stock. As a result, 18 Table of Contents Mr. Koch is able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the composition of the board of directors and approval of equity-based and other executive compensation and other significant corporate matters. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company and will make most transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of Mr. Koch. Impact of Changes in Drinker Attitudes on Brand Equity and Inherent Risk of Reliance on the Company’s Founder in the Samuel Adams® Brand Communications. There is no guarantee that the brand equities that the Company has built in its brands will continue to appeal to drinkers. Changes in drinker attitudes or demands could adversely affect the strength of the brands and the revenue that is generated from that strength. It is possible that the Company could react to such changes and reposition its brands, but there is no certainty that the Company would be able to maintain volumes, pricing power and profitability. It is also possible that marketing messages or other actions taken by the Company could damage the brand equities as opposed to building them. If such damage should occur, it could have a negative effect on the financial condition of the Company. In addition to these inherent brand risks, the Founder and Chairman of the Company, C. James Koch, is an integral part of the Company’s current Samuel Adams brand message and the Company relies on the positive public perception of its Founder. The role of Mr. Koch as founder, brewer and leader of the Company is emphasized as part of the Company’s brand communication and has appeal to some drinkers. If Mr. Koch were not available to the Company to continue his active role, his absence could detrimentally affect the strength of the Company’s messaging and, accordingly, the Company’s growth prospects. If this were to occur, the Company might need to adapt its strategy for communicating its key messages regarding its traditional brewing processes, brewing heritage and quality. Any such change in the Company’s messaging strategy might have a detrimental impact on the future growth of the Company. The Company’s Operating Results and Cash Flow May Be Adversely Affected by Unfavorable Economic and Financial Market Conditions. Volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and economic conditions may directly or indirectly affect the Company’s performance and operating results in a variety of ways, including: (a) prices for energy and agricultural products may rise faster than current estimates; (b) the Company’s key suppliers may not be able to fund their capital requirements, resulting in disruption in the supplies of the Company’s raw and packaging materials; (c) the credit risks of the Company’s wholesalers may increase; (d) the Company’s credit facility, or portion thereof, may become unavailable at a time when needed by the Company to meet critical needs; (e) overall beer consumption may decline; or (f) drinkers of the Company’s beers may change their purchase preferences and frequency, which might result in sales declines. Volatile and uncertain financial markets and economic conditions may cause disruption in the Company’s operations and cash flow and reduce its gross profit and gross margin, as described above, and may also increase the Company’s advertising, promotional and selling and general and administrative costs, and therefore adversely impact our operating results. The Company has Significantly Increased its Product Offerings and Distribution Footprint which Increases Complexity and Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business. In 2011, the Company significantly increased its commercially available beers to over 50 and launched the Angry Orchard hard cider brand. Further, in late 2011, the Company formed a subsidiary, A&S Brewing Collaborative LLC d/b/a Alchemy & Science, headed by Alan Newman, who founded Magic Hat Brewing in 1994, as a craft brew incubator headquartered in Burlington, Vermont. During the first quarter of 2012, Alchemy & Science purchased the assets of Southern California Brewing Company, Inc., a Los Angeles based craft brewer doing business as Angel City Brewing Company, which includes a small brewery and a beer hall. The Company expects Alchemy & Science to roll out additional brands in 2012. Also during 2012, the Company intends to complete its national distribution for both Twisted Tea and Angry Orchard brand families. The Company does not have experience with managing this number of brands and products and has limited experience with integrating acquired brands or operating beer halls. There can be no assurance that the Company will effectively manage such increased complexity without experiencing operating inefficiencies or control deficiencies. Such inefficiencies or deficiencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports that (1) the Company believes are material, (2) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of the Company’s 2010 fiscal year, and (3) remain unresolved. 