Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report (including, without limitation, Item 1 – "Business" and Item 7 – "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). All statements other than statements of historical facts included herein are "forward-looking statements." Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements include statements which are predictive in nature, which depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and which include words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," or similar expressions. These statements are not guaranties of future performance, and the Company makes no commitment to update or disclose any revisions to forward-looking statements, or any facts, events or circumstances after the date hereof that may bear upon forward-looking statements. Because such statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual actions and strategies and the timing and expected results thereof may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those disclosed in this Annual Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company makes no commitment to update these factors or to revise any forward-looking statements for events or circumstances occurring after the statement is issued. At any time when the Company makes forward-looking statements, it desires to take advantage of the “safe harbor” which is afforded such statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Risk Factors We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the cautionary statement under the caption “Forward Looking Statements” described above and other information contained in this Annual Report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission before purchasing our securities. Our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our Common Stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our Common Stock. Acquisitions have been and continue to be an important part of our growth strategy; failure to consummate acquisitions could limit our growth and failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could adversely impact our results. Our business strategy includes continued growth through strategic acquisitions, which depends upon our ability to identify potential acquisitions, the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and the availability of financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our growth strategy is dependent upon our ability to negotiate and consummate acquisitions and effectively integrate the acquisitions into our business. Acquisitions involve integrating product lines, employees and manufacturing facilities and include risks relating to employee turnover and sales channel tension. We cannot be certain that we will successfully manage all of these challenges and risks in the future and there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions will be successful. Failure to consummate appropriate acquisitions would adversely impact our growth and failure to successfully integrate them would adversely affect our results. 12 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and cannot be certain that we will be able to compete effectively. The markets for our products are highly competitive. We compete with manufacturers of both branded and private-label dental products. Some of our competitors have greater financial, research, manufacturing, marketing and other resources which could allow them to compete more successfully. As a result we may not be able to achieve, maintain or increase market share or margins, or compete effectively against these companies. In addition, new competitors are constantly entering the markets in which we participate. We rely heavily on key distributors, and if any of them stop doing business with us it would significantly impact our operating results. In fiscal 2011, approximately 31.6% of our sales were made through two distributors. If either of these two distributors were to materially change the timing of their order patterns, our financial results in any given short-term period could be adversely affected. Additionally, the loss of either distributor as a customer, or a material change in our relationship with either distributor would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition until we find an alternative means to distribute our products. The strength of the dental market is impacted by general worldwide economic conditions. Uncertain or negative economic conditions, along with higher unemployment, adversely affect the dental market in general. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. If we are unable to successfully manage growth, our results could be materially adversely affected. The Company is committed to growth in part through acquisition as well as organically through the development of new products. Our commitment to growth will continue to place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational, and financial resources. In order to address these concerns, the Company is focused on attracting and retaining key employees who possess outstanding talent for achieving short and long-term objectives. We will also have to continue to consolidate our operations and improve and upgrade operational, financial and accounting systems, controls and infrastructure as well as expand, train and manage our employees. Our failure to manage the future expansion of our business could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Changes in standard of care relating to dental health may impact future results. The demand for dental products is impacted by the dental health care standards. If the industry standards were to shift to a standard of care that changed the frequency or type of procedures performed or if third-party insurance coverage were to substantially change, the market for our Company’s products could be adversely affected. Changes in the healthcare industry may impact future results. The healthcare industry is in the process of undergoing significant changes. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), which was signed into law in March 2010, contains legislation that increases the number of people covered by insurance. As this legislation continues to evolve, it is difficult to predict how this will ultimately impact the dental industry and our business. Our business is subject to quarterly variations in operating results due to factors outside of our control. Our business is subject to quarterly variations in operating results caused by a number of factors, including business and industry conditions, the timing of acquisitions, the buying patterns of our largest customers, technology changes, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and other factors beyond our control. All these factors make it difficult to predict operating results for any particular period. 13 Table of Contents Our future performance is materially dependent upon our senior management. Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly Alfred E. Brennan, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Arthur L. Herbst, Jr., President and Chief Financial Officer, among others. The loss of the services of either Mr. Brennan or Mr. Herbst could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have employment agreements with each of Messrs. Brennan and Herbst. We do not currently have “key man” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. Difficulty in obtaining goods and services from our vendors and suppliers could adversely affect our business. We are dependent on certain vendors and suppliers. We believe we have good relationships with and are generally able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from our vendors and suppliers. However, if our raw material products, such as resin, were to increase in price significantly, the cost of manufacturing products would increase and our profitability may be impacted. Our product offering includes a multitude of products supplied by a number of suppliers. When possible, we attempt to have multiple sources for key materials and supplies. However, some items are single sourced. Although we believe there are alternative suppliers for the products we single source, if our vendors and suppliers were no longer able to or decided not to supply certain products, there could be delay in identifying and transitioning to alternative suppliers, as well as increased costs, any of which could adversely affect our business for a period of time. If we are unable to identify and secure reasonably priced alternative suppliers in a timely manner, or if we encounter delays or difficulty in obtaining raw materials or products from third-party suppliers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain of our products and manufacturing facilities are subject to regulation, and our failure or the failure of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws and regulations and obtain or maintain the required regulatory approvals for these products could hinder or prevent their sale and increase our costs of regulatory compliance. In addition, there can be no assurance we will be able to successfully reintroduce any products that may have been recalled. Our ability to continue manufacturing and selling those of our products that are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, state, local or foreign laws or other federal, state or foreign governmental bodies or agencies is subject to a number of risks, including our ability to comply with existing laws and regulations and ongoing requirements, the promulgation of stricter laws or regulations, or the withdrawal of the approval needed to sell one or more of our products. We are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Securities and Exchange Commission, among others. With respect to certain products we purchase, our ability to sell such products to our customers is dependent upon the supplier complying with all applicable laws and regulations. The failure of the Company and/or our suppliers to comply with existing or future laws and regulations could prevent the sale of certain products and have a material adverse effect on our operations. The costs of complying with these types of regulations and the delays in receiving required regulatory approvals or new laws, regulations, or regulatory requirements adverse to our business may force the Company to discontinue selling products, make expensive changes to be able to continue to market existing products, make it more expensive and possibly prohibitive to introduce new products, require the Company to recall products, increase our costs of regulatory compliance or hinder our growth. To the extent that we recall products, there can be no assurance that we will be able to timely and successfully reintroduce any products that may have been recalled into the market. As part of the federal legislation to reform the U.S healthcare system, a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices is scheduled to be implemented in 2013 that will apply to U.S. sales of a majority of our medical device products. Accordingly, the Company is continuing to assess the financial impact of the new law on our business. 14 Table of Contents Technological change could result in loss of market share, product obsolescence and dependence on new products. Our future success depends on the ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology, industry standards and customers’ changing demands. If we do not timely acquire, develop, complete testing, obtain regulatory approval and sell commercial quantities of new products in response to a technological change or the changing demands of customers, we could lose market share and our products could become obsolete. Loss of intellectual property protection and related disputes could negatively affect our results. Our Company utilizes copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, licenses and confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that the steps taken to protect our intellectual property or proprietary technology will be adequate or enforceable to prevent misappropriation. In addition, the cost of prosecuting and defending such actions can be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results. We rely upon others to assist in the education and promotion of our products, and the loss of the participation of these individuals could adversely affect our net sales. Changes in the rules governing promotion of our products might likewise adversely affect our sales. We work with various dental clinicians to educate the dental community on the features and benefits of our products. Some clinicians are a key component to our strategy for growing our sales. The inability or unwillingness of one or more of these clinicians to continue to assist us could negatively impact the sales of certain significant products. If new laws are enacted or new regulations promulgated that restrict promotional communications about our products, this may likewise adversely affect our sales. We are subject to potential product liability claims as a result of the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. Claims alleging product liability may involve large potential damages and significant defense costs. We currently maintain insurance coverage for such claims but there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by our insurance. A product liability claim could adversely affect our reputation. A successful claim against us in excess of the available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results. Changes in tax legislation could impact the Company’s effective tax rate and earnings. The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign taxes. Changes in legislation, as well as operational and structural changes in the Company’s business, could affect the Company’s effective tax rate, which could ultimately impact our net earnings. Additionally, the Company is subject to federal, state, and local tax audits, as well as audits by non-US tax authorities. The audits could result in unfavorable tax adjustments, which could negatively impact the Company’s results. Operating results could be impacted by an impairment to the Company’s goodwill or other intangible assets. At least annually, the Company is required to perform an impairment review on goodwill and intangible assets under US GAAP. Various assumptions are used in the company’s analysis, including royalty rates, sales growth rates and dental industry growth rates. The company may be required to record a charge to earnings based upon the outcome of the review. 15 Table of Contents Quality or safety concerns could put the Company at risk for product recalls. The Company may need to recall products for quality or safety reasons. While the Company’s products generally have a good reputation with customers and end-users, product safety or quality concerns could result in potential governmental action or litigation. The Company’s reputation or financial results could be impacted by publicity or costs related to company, governmental or legal action. Our international operations could expose the Company to intrinsic risks that have the potential to affect our business. Uncertainties in our international operations could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks include, among other items, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, longer customer payment cycles, regulatory requirements, import or export requirements, repatriation of cash from our foreign operations, and economic and political instability. Our reliance on information systems could adversely affect the continued operations of the Company. We rely on information systems in our business to process and manage data to help us: facilitate the purchase and distribution of our inventory items; receive, process, and ship orders; manage the accurate billing of customers; and process payments to suppliers. There can be no assurances that we can prevent breakdowns or breaches within our system that could ultimately have a significant adverse effect on the business operations and financial condition of the Company. As we upgrade and evolve our computer systems and software, we may also encounter issues that could have an adverse effect on the overall business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 