Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. These are risks and uncertainties that management believes are most likely to be material and therefore are most important for an investor to consider. The Company’s business operations and results may also be adversely affected by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to it, or which it currently deems immaterial, or which are similar to those faced by other companies in its industry or business in general. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock could decline. The Company Faces Substantial Competition. The Better Beer category within the United States beer market is highly competitive, due to the large number of craft brewers with similar pricing and target customers and gains in market share achieved by imported beers. The Company anticipates competition among domestic craft brewers to remain strong as craft brewers experienced their fourth successive year of growth in 2007. Large domestic brewers have developed or are developing niche brands within the Better Beer category and have acquired or are exploring acquiring interests in small brewers to compete in the craft-brewed segment or in import brands to compete with imported beers. Imported beers, such as Corona® and Heineken®, continue to compete aggressively in the United States beer market. Samuel Adams® is the third largest brand in the Better Beer category of the United States brewing industry, trailing only Corona® and Heineken®. The continued growth in the sales of craft-brewed domestic beers and in imported beers is expected to increase the competition in the Better Beer category within the United States beer market and, as a result, prices and market share of the Company’s products may fluctuate and possibly decline. No assurance can be given that any decline in price would be offset by an increase in market share. The Company’s products, including its Twisted Tea® products, also compete generally with other alcoholic beverages. The Company competes with other beer and beverage companies not only for drinker acceptance and loyalty but also for shelf and tap space in retail establishments and for marketing focus by the Company’s distributors and their customers, all of which also distribute and sell other beers and alcoholic beverage products. Many of the Company’s competitors, including Corona® and Heineken® and the large domestic brewers have substantially greater financial resources, marketing strength and distribution networks than the Company. Moreover, the introduction of new products by competitors that compete directly with the Company’s products, or that diminish the importance of the Company’s products to the retailers or distributors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 11 Table of Contents The Potential Joint Venture Between SABMiller and Molson Coors Could Bring Added Pressures to Our Ability to Compete In recent years, the beer industry has seen continued consolidation among brewers in order to take advantage of cost savings opportunities for supplies, distribution and operations. If completed, the domestic joint venture project between SABMiller and Molson Coors will make the combined brewer, MillerCoors, the second largest brewer in the United States, providing greater resources and a distribution platform to compete more effectively. According to published reports, the MillerCoors joint venture is expected to bring an annual savings of $500 million by the third year of the merger. Due to the increased leverage that the combined operation will have, the costs to the Company of competing could increase and the availability of brewing capacity at other breweries could be reduced if any breweries were closed by the joint venture. The potential also exists for MillerCoors to increase their influence with their distributors, making it difficult for smaller brewers to maintain their market presence or enter new markets. These potential increases in costs to compete, reductions in contract brewing capacity and decreases in distribution opportunities may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. There Is No Assurance of Continued Growth. The Company’s future growth may be limited by both its ability to continue to increase its market share in domestic and international markets, including those markets that may be dominated by one or more regional or local craft breweries, and by the growth in the craft-brewed beer market and the Better Beer market. The development of new products by the Company may lead to reduced sales in the Company’s other products, including its flagship Samuel Adams Boston Lager®. The Company’s future growth may also be limited by its ability to meet production goals for the Pennsylvania Brewery, as well as its ability to enter into new brewing contracts on commercially acceptable terms or the availability of suitable production capacity, should production at the Pennsylvania Brewery miss targets, and its ability to obtain sufficient quantities of certain ingredients and packaging materials, such as hops and bottles, from suppliers. The Company’s current hop inventory levels are less than it would like, and any future disruption to hop supply, under delivery of hop contracts or growth in sales beyond what is currently forecast could prevent the Company from meeting future demand. The Unpredictability and Fluctuation of the Company’s Quarterly Results May Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Its Common Stock. The Company’s Advertising and Promotional Investments May Not be Effective. The Company’s revenues and results of operations have in the past and may in the future vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of the Company’s control and any of which may cause its stock price to fluctuate. As a growth-oriented Company, the Company has made, and expects to continue to make, significant advertising and promotional expenditures to enhance its brands. These expenditures may not result in higher sales volume. Variations in the levels of advertising and promotional expenditures have in the past caused, and are expected in the future to continue to cause, variability in the Company’s quarterly results of operations. The Company has in the past made, and expects from time to time in the future to make, significant advertising and promotional expenditures to enhance its brands even though those expenditures may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in a particular quarter or even for the full year, and may not result in increased sales. While the Company attempts to invest only in effective advertising and promotional expenditures, it is difficult to correlate such investments with sales results, and there is no guarantee that the Company’s expenditure will be effective in building brand equity or growing long term sales. In addition, the Company fills orders from its wholesalers who may choose independently to build their inventories or run their inventories down. Such a change in wholesaler inventories is somewhat unpredictable, and can lead to fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly or annual results. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s Current Dependence on Brewing at Non-Owned Breweries Could Harm Its Business which Could Have A Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Operations or Financial Results. Historically, the Company has pursued a strategy of combining brewery ownership with brewing at breweries owned by others. The Company-owned breweries are located in Cincinnati, Ohio and Boston, Massachusetts and the Company currently brews under agreements with breweries in Eden, North Carolina, Rochester, New York, Latrobe, Pennsylvania and La Crosse, Wisconsin. The Company carefully selects breweries with (i) the capability of utilizing traditional brewing methods and (ii) first rate quality control capabilities throughout brewing, fermentation, finishing and packaging. The brewing arrangements with other breweries have historically allowed the Company to utilize their excess capacity, providing the Company flexibility as well as quality and cost advantages over its competitors. However, higher than planned costs of operating under contract arrangement at breweries owned by others or an unexpected decline in the brewing capacity available to the Company may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The Company continues to brew its Samuel Adams Boston Lager® at each of its brewing facilities, but at any particular time may rely on only one supplier for its products other than Samuel Adams Boston Lager®. The Company believes that it has sufficient capacity options that would allow for a shift in production locations if necessary, although it is unable to quantify any additional costs, capital or operating, if any, that it might incur in securing access to such capacity. Management believes that, in the event of a labor dispute, governmental action, a sudden closure of one of the breweries not owned by the Company or other events that would prevent either the Cincinnati Brewery or any of the breweries under contract from producing the Company’s beer, the Company would be able to shift production among breweries so as to meet demand for its beer. In such event, however, the Company could experience temporary shortfalls in production and/or increased production or distribution costs, the combination of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. A simultaneous interruption at several of the Company’s production locations would likely cause significant disruption, increased costs and, potentially, lost sales. Should the Acquisition of the Pennsylvania Brewery Not Be Completed or Should There Be a Significant Delay in the Start Up of the Brewery , the Company Will Face Substantial Challenges Meeting Future Volume Demands, which Could Have A Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Operations or Financial Results. Should the acquisition of the Pennsylvania Brewery not be completed or be delayed, the Company could face challenges in meeting future volume demands, especially as demands for the Company’s products continue to grow. Any significant shortfalls in production or significant delays in the start up of the Pennsylvania Brewery would likely cause significant disruptions in shipments, increased costs, and, potentially, lost sales. The Addition of the Pennsylvania Brewery Will Significantly Change the Company’s Operations. Owning a Larger Percentage of Its Breweries has High Capital Costs, Creates a Larger Fixed Cost Burden on the Company’s Business, Requires Different Management Skills and Capabilities, and has Greater Uncertainty as to Operating Costs. The addition of the Pennsylvania Brewery will significantly change the direction of the Company’s operations from mainly brewing at breweries owned by others to mainly brewing at Company-owned breweries. This change increases the capital required by the Company to brew and package its beers and creates a more significant fixed-costs structure for the Company. The engineering, production management and leadership skills required to operate a brewery are different from those required to work with breweries where beer is brewed under contract with others, and will require the Company to hire and develop new skills and experience. The Company believes that a shift to brewing at Company-owned breweries could bring operational savings, increased flexibility, greater reliability and better quality control capabilities throughout brewing, fermentation, finishing and packaging, but that this shift will be accompanied by risks, especially during the transition, and an increased cost of owning, maintaining and operating fixed assets. There is no 13 Table of Contents certainty that the ultimate operating costs will be more favorable than the brewing strategy the Company has been using since its inception. In Addition to the Added Complexity in the Company’s Operations that will Arise From the Acquisition of the Pennsylvania Brewery, the Management Pressures that Accompany the Company’s Growth May Also Exceed the Company’s Ability to Manage the Growth and Implement Appropriate Internal Controls. The combination of the Company’s recent high growth and its planned purchase of the Pennsylvania Brewery are increasing the operating complexity of the business. There can be no assurance that the Company will effectively manage such increased complexity without experiencing operating inefficiencies or control deficiencies. Such inefficiencies or deficiencies could have a material adverse effect on the business. The Company Is Dependent on Its Distributors. In the United States, where approximately 99% of its beer is sold, the Company sells its beer to independent beer distributors for distribution to retailers and ultimately drinkers. Although the Company currently has arrangements with approximately 400 wholesale distributors, sustained growth will require it to maintain such relationships and possibly enter into agreements with additional distributors. Changes in control or ownership of the current distribution network could lead to less support of the Company’s products. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to maintain or secure additional distributors on terms favorable to the Company. The Company’s distribution agreements are generally terminable by the distributor on short notice. While these distribution agreements contain provisions regarding the Company’s enforcement and termination rights, some state laws prohibit the Company from exercising these contractual rights. The Company’s ability to maintain its existing distribution agreements may be adversely affected by the fact that many of its distributors are reliant on one of the major beer producers for a large percentage of their revenue and, therefore, they may be influenced by such producers. If the Company’s existing distribution agreements are terminated, it may not be able to enter into new distribution agreements on substantially similar terms, which may result in an increase in the costs of distribution. The Company is Dependent on Key Suppliers, Including Foreign Sources; Its Dependence on Foreign Sources Creates Foreign Currency Exposure for the Company; The Company’s Use of Natural Ingredients Creates Weather and Crop Reliability Exposure for the Company. The Company purchases a substantial portion of the raw materials used in the brewing of its products, including its malt and hops, from a limited number of foreign and domestic suppliers. The Company purchased most of the malt used in the production of its beer from one major supplier during 2007. The Company is exposed to the quality of the barley crop each year, and significant failure of a crop would adversely affect the Company’s costs. The Company believes that there are other malt vendors available that are capable of supplying its needs. The Company uses Noble hops for its Samuel Adams® lagers. Noble hops are varieties from several specific growing areas recognized for superior taste and aroma properties and include Hallertau-Hallertauer, Tettnang-Tettnanger and Spalt-Spalter from Germany. Noble hops are rare and more expensive than most other varieties of hops. Traditional English hops, namely, East Kent Goldings and English Fuggles, are used in the Company’s ales. The Company enters into purchase commitments with two hops dealers, based on the Company’s projected future volumes and brewing needs. The dealers then contract with farmers to ensure that the Company’s needs are met. However, the performance and availability of the hops may be materially adversely affected by factors such as adverse weather, the imposition of export restrictions (such as increased tariffs and duties) and changes in currency exchange rates resulting in increased prices. The Company attempts to maintain over one year’s supply of essential hop varieties on-hand in order to limit the risk of an unexpected reduction in supply. The 2007 crop shortfall and under delivery of 2007 hop contracts has reduced the Company’s hop inventories such that a similarly poor 2008 hop crop might lead the Company to explore alternative sources of hops, and any disruption of hop supply, under delivery of 2008 contracts or growth in sales in excess of forecast could lead the Company to be unable to meet future demand. The Company stores its hops in multiple cold storage warehouses to minimize the impact of a catastrophe at a 14 Table of Contents single site. Hops and malt are agricultural products and therefore many outside factors, including weather conditions, farmers rotating out of hops or barley to other crops, government regulations and legislation affecting agriculture, could affect both price and supply. Historically, the Company has not experienced material difficulties in obtaining timely delivery from its suppliers. Although the Company believes that there are alternate sources available for the ingredients and packaging materials, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to acquire such ingredients or packaging materials from substitute sources on a timely or cost effective basis in the event that current suppliers could not adequately fulfill orders. The loss of a supplier could, in the short-term, adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position until alternative supply arrangements were secured. The Company’s contracts for hops are payable in Euros for German hops and in Pounds Sterling for English hops, and therefore, the Company is subject to the risk that the Euro or Pound may continue to rise against the U.S. dollar, as has been the case over the last several years. The Company has, as a practice, not hedged this exposure, although this practice is subject to review. Significant adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Currently, the cost of hops is approximately 10% of the Company’s product cost. The cost of hops has greatly increased in recent years due to exchange rate changes and the rising market price of hops, and continuation of these trends will impact the Company’s product cost and potentially the Company’s ability to meet demand. An Increase in Packaging Costs Could Harm the Company’s Business. The Company maintains multiple sources for the supply of most of its packaging materials, such as shipping cases, six-pack carriers and crowns. Historically, glass and labels are each supplied by a single source. In 2007, the Company entered into a long term supply agreement with Anchor. This agreement calls for Anchor to be the exclusive supplier of glass bottles for the Company’s Cincinnati Brewery and the Pennsylvania Brewery, if the acquisition of that brewery is consummated, beginning January 1, 2009 and establishes the terms on which Anchor may supply glass bottles to other breweries where the Company brews its beers. Although the Company believes that alternative suppliers are available, the loss of either the Company’s glass or other packaging materials suppliers could, in the short-term, adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position until alternative supply arrangements were secured. If packaging costs continue to increase, there is no guarantee that such costs can be fully passed along to drinkers through increased prices. The Company has entered into long-term supply agreements for certain packaging materials that have shielded it from some cost increases. These contracts have varying length and terms and there is no guarantee that the economics of these contracts can be duplicated at time of renewal. This could expose the Company to significant cost increases in future years. The Company initiates bottles deposits and reuses some of the glass bottles that are returned pursuant to certain state bottle recycling laws and derives some economic benefit from this practice. The cost associated with reusing the glass varies, based on the costs of collection, sorting and handling, including arrangements with retailers, wholesalers and dealers in recycled products. The Company believes that it benefits economically from cleaning and reusing these bottles, which result in a lower cost than purchasing new glass, and that it benefits the environment by the reduction in landfill usage, the reduction of usage of raw materials, and the lower utility costs for reusing bottles versus producing new bottles. The economics of using recycled glass varies based on the cost of collection, sorting and handling, and may be affected by local regulation, and retailer, distributor and glass dealer behavior. There is no guarantee that the current economics of using returned glass will continue, or that the Company will continue to do so. An Increase in Energy Costs Could Harm the Company’s Business. In the last four years, the Company has experienced significant increases in direct and indirect energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs, including increases in the cost of supplies. The Company’s future operating expenses and 15 Table of Contents margins will be dependent on its ability to manage the impact of cost increases. If energy costs continue to increase, there is no guarantee that such costs can be fully passed along to drinkers through increased prices. The Company’s Operations are Subject to Certain Operating Hazards. The Company’s operations are subject to certain hazards and liability risks faced by all brewers, such as potential contamination of ingredients or products by bacteria or other external agents that may be wrongfully or accidentally introduced into products or packaging. While the Company has not experienced any serious contamination problem in its products, the occurrence of such a problem could result in a costly product recall and serious damage to the Company’s reputation for product quality, as well as claims for product liability. The Company is Subject to Existing and Potential Additional Regulation and Taxation, which Can Impose Burdens on Its Operations and Narrow the Markets for Its Products. The manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages is a business that is highly regulated and taxed at the federal, state and local levels. The Company’s operations may be subject to more restrictive regulations and increased taxation by federal, state and local governmental agencies than are those of non-alcohol related businesses. For instance, brewery and wholesale operations require various federal, state and local licenses, permits and approvals. In addition, some states prohibit wholesalers and retailers from holding an interest in any supplier such as the Company. Violation of such regulations can result in the loss or revocation of existing licenses by the wholesaler, retailer and/or the supplier. The loss or revocation of any existing licenses, permits or approvals, failure to obtain any additional or new licenses, permits or approvals or the failure to obtain approval for the transfer of any existing permits or licenses, could have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company to conduct its business. Because of the many and various state and federal licensing and permitting requirements, there is a risk that one or more regulatory authorities could determine that the Company has not complied with applicable licensing or permitting regulations, paid the appropriate excise taxes or does not maintain the approvals necessary for it to conduct business within their jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that any such regulatory action would not have a material adverse effect upon the Company or its operating results. In addition, if federal or state excise taxes are increased, the Company may have to raise prices to maintain present profit margins. The Company does not necessarily believe that a price increase due to increased taxes will reduce unit sales, but the actual effect will depend on the amount of any increase, general economic conditions and other factors. Higher taxes may reduce overall demand for beer, thus negatively impacting sales of the Company’s products. Further federal or state regulation may be forthcoming that could limit distribution and sales of alcohol products. Such regulation might reduce the Company’s ability to sell its products at retail and at wholesale and could severely impact the Company’s business. The Company is Under Audit by the TTB and has Received a Notice of Demand for $8.5 Million. The Exact Outcome of this Matter is Currently Unknown. During the third quarter of 2007, the TTB performed a routine audit of the Company’s Cincinnati Brewery and other breweries where some of the Company’s products are produced (the “TTB Audit”). In February 2008, the TTB formally disputed the Company’s regulatory and tax treatment of certain of its 2006 and 2007 Twisted Tea shipments and the Company has received a notice of demand for additional excise taxes plus interest and penalties of approximately $8.5 million. The TTB has asserted that these shipments were not classified consistent with TTB regulations that took effect January 1, 2006. Based on the Company’s analysis to date, it believes that most of its Twisted Tea shipments were in compliance with applicable regulations. The Company is in discussions with the TTB regarding the differences in the methodologies used to ascertain regulatory compliance and expects these discussions to eventually include potential settlement terms. While the Company believes settlement should be possible, the Company also believes that it has litigation options available to it to dispute the TTB position. It is not possible to determine the ultimate outcome of these discussions or any future litigation, but based on information available on December 29, 2007, the Company 16 Table of Contents concluded that the range of possible outcomes was between $3.9 million and $9.3 million. In the first quarter of 2008 the Company has continued to gather additional information and refine its analysis and currently estimates that, if it does not pursue litigation, the potential expense could be as low as $1.8 million and would not be expected to materially exceed the approximate $8.5 million which the TTB has assessed, after considering amounts the Company has previously paid. The ultimate outcome of this matter could materially differ from the Company’s estimate. Based on the information previously collected and its earlier assessment of likely outcomes, the Company recorded a provision of $3.9 million in the third quarter. The Company continues to maintain this provision in its December 29, 2007 financial statements, related to this contingency. Twisted Tea shipments were only minimally interrupted due to this matter. Changes in Public Attitudes and Drinker Tastes Could Harm the Company’s Business. The alcoholic beverage industry has become the subject of considerable societal and political attention in recent years due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including drunk driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol, including alcoholism. As an outgrowth of these concerns, the possibility exists that advertising by beer producers could be restricted, that additional cautionary labeling or packaging requirements might be imposed, that further restrictions on the sale of alcohol might be imposed, or that there may be renewed efforts to impose increased excise or other taxes on beer sold in the United States. The domestic beer industry, other than Better Beers, has experienced a slight decline in shipments over the last ten years. The Company believes that this slower growth is due to both declining alcohol consumption per person in the population and increased competition from wine and spirits companies. If beer consumption in general were to come into disfavor among domestic drinkers, or if the domestic beer industry were subjected to significant additional governmental regulations, the Company’s business could be materially adversely affected. The Company Has Been Involved in Various Litigation Matters. There Is No Guarantee that Other Litigation Will Not Develop that Could Harm the Company’s Business. The Company, along with numerous other beverage alcohol producers, was named as a defendant in a number of class action law suits in several states relating to advertising practices and under-age consumption. Each complaint contained substantially the same allegations that each defendant marketed its products to under-age drinkers and seeks an injunction and unspecified money damages on behalf of a class of parents and guardians. Two of the complaints have been withdrawn by the plaintiffs and all of the other active complaints have been dismissed with prejudice. Although the plaintiffs appealed each of those dismissals, they have withdrawn all pending appeals. The Company had been in litigation with its liability insurers relating to the coverage of defense costs in connection with the above-referenced complaints. The parties entered into a settlement agreement in November 2007 that settled all claims asserted by each of the parties. The complaints filed with the U.S. District Court in Ohio and with the Suffolk County Superior Court in Massachusetts have subsequently been dismissed. While the Company believes it conducts its business appropriately in accordance with laws, regulations and industry guidelines, further litigation in addition to the above could develop and might severely impact the Company’s results. Class B Shareholder Has Significant Influence over the Company. The Company’s Class A Common Stock is not entitled to any voting rights, except for the right as a class to approve certain mergers and charter and by-law amendments and to elect a minority of the directors of the Company. Consequently, the election of a majority of the Company’s directors and all other matters requiring stockholder approval are decided by C. James Koch, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, as the current holder of 100% of the Class B Common Stock. As a result, Mr. Koch is able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the composition of the board of directors and approval of equity-based and other executive compensation and other significant corporate matters. This 17 Table of Contents could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company and will make most transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of Mr. Koch. Continued Health of our Brands, and Role of our Founder in the Samuel Adams® Brand Communication There is no guarantee that the brand equities that the Company has built in its brands will continue to appeal to drinkers. Changes in drinker attitudes or demands could severely affect the strength of the brands and the revenue that is generated from that strength. It is possible that the Company could react to such changes and reposition the brands, but there is no certainty that the Company would be able to maintain volumes, pricing power and profitability. It is also possible that marketing messages or other actions taken by the Company could damage the brand equities as opposed to building them. If such damage should occur, it could have a negative effect on the financial condition of the Company. In addition to these inherent brand risks, the founder and Chairman of the Company, C. James Koch, is an integral part of the Company’s current Samuel Adams® brand message. The role of Mr. Koch as founder, brewer and leader of the Company, is emphasized as part of the Company’s brand communication and has appeal to some drinkers. If Mr. Koch were not available to the Company to continue his active role, his absence could detrimentally affect the strength of the Company’s messaging and, accordingly, the Company’s growth prospects. If this were to occur, the Company might need to adapt its strategy for communicating its key messages regarding its traditional brewing processes, brewing heritage and quality. This might have a detrimental impact on the future growth of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports that (1) the Company believes are material, (2) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of the Company’s 2007 fiscal year, and (3) remain unresolved. 