Item 1A. Risk Factors We have experienced significant losses and expect to incur losses in the future. As a result, the amount of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities has materially declined. We raised additional equity financing in January, 2008 to fund our continuing operations, support the further development and launch of ClearPath and other activities. If we continue to incur significant losses and are unable to access sufficient working capital from our operations or through external financings, we will be unable to fund future operations and operate as a going concern. We have incurred substantial net losses in each of the last six fiscal years. As reflected in our financial statements, we have experienced net losses of $21.0 million, $17.1 million and $55.5 million in our fiscal years ended October 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As a result, the total amount of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities has significantly declined from approximately $15.0 million at October 31, 2004 to $0.6 million at October 31, 2007, and our interest-bearing debt has grown to $3.3 million. In addition, our line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank will expire on February 1, 2008, and there is no assurance that it will be renewed. The negative cash flow we have sustained has materially reduced our working capital. Although our working capital has been replenished to some extent by our January 2008 equity financing, continued negative cash flow could materially and negatively impact our ability to fund future operations and continue to operate as a going concern. Management has taken and continues to take actions intended to improve our results. These actions include reducing cash operating expenses, developing new technologies and products, improving existing technologies and products, and expanding into new geographical markets. The availability of necessary working capital, however, is subject to many factors beyond our control, including our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to increase revenues and to reduce further our losses from operations, economic cycles, market acceptance of our products, competitors’ responses to our products, the intensity of competition in our markets, and the level of demand for our products. The amount of working capital that we will need in the future will also depend on our efforts and many factors, including: · Our ability to successfully develop, market and sell our products, including the successful further development and launch of our new ClearPath device for treatment of breast cancer; · Continued scientific progress in our discovery and research programs; · Levels of selling and marketing expenditures that will be required to launch future products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace for both existing and new products; 18 · Structuring our businesses in alignment with their revenues to reduce operating losses; · Levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; · Level of capital expenditures; · Acquisition or development of other businesses, technologies or products; · The time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; · The costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; and · The potential need to develop, acquire or license new technologies and products. We completed a private placement of $15.5 million of our common stock in January, 2008; however, we may need to raise additional equity financing, reduce operations and take other steps to achieve positive cash flow. We also may be required to curtail our expenses or to take steps that could hurt our future performance, including but not limited to, the termination of major portions of our research and development activities, the premature sale of some or all of our assets or product lines on undesirable terms, merger with or acquisition by another company on unsatisfactory terms or the cessation of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts or that any or some of the above factors will not negatively impact us. We believe that we will have sufficient cash to sustain us at least through the next twelve months. Future financing transactions will likely have dilutive and other negative effects on our existing shareholders. In January 2008, we completed a private placement of 63,008,140 shares of our common stock that also included 3,150,407 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants. This financing resulted in significant dilution of the Company’s current shareholders. If we raise additional equity financing in the future, the percentage ownership held by existing shareholders would be further reduced, and existing shareholders may experience further significant dilution. In addition, new investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges that differ from, or are senior to, those of our existing shareholders, such as warrants in addition to the securities purchased and other protections against future dilutive transactions. We currently do not meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market. Our ability to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market or if we are unable to transfer our listing to the Nasdaq Capital Market. As of July 31, 2007, we did not meet the $10 million stockholders’ equity requirement under Maintenance Standard 1 for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market set forth in Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(3). As a result of our non-compliance, The Nasdaq Stock Market sent us a notice that our stock was subject to delisting from the The Nasdaq Global Market. We appealed the delisting to the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel, and on December 11, 2007, we received formal notice that the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel had granted our request for a transfer from the Nasdaq Global Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market, and continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, subject to the following exceptions: 19 § On or before January 17, 2008, we were required to inform the Panel that we had received funds sufficient to put us in compliance with the Capital Market shareholders’ equity requirement of $2.5 million. Within four business days of the receipt of the funds, we were required to make a public disclosure of receipt of the funds and file a Form 8-K with pro forma financial information indicating that we planned to report proforma shareholders’ equity of $2.5 million or greater for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2007. We informed the Panel of receipt of sufficient funds on January 18, 2008. We publicly disclosed receipt of such funds in a press release dated January 22, 2008 and filed a Form 8-K with respect to this matter on January 25, 2008. § On or before January 31, 2008, we were required to file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2007, which shall demonstrate proforma shareholder’s equity of $2.5 million or greater. This information is set forth below in this Report under “Subsequent Events – Nasdaq Delisting.” On October 5, 2007, we received a notice from Nasdaq indicating that, for the preceding 30 consecutive days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing. In accordance with the Nasdaq rules, we have until April 2, 2008, to regain compliance. In order to regain compliance, the bid price of our common stock must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance with the rule by April 2, 2008, we understand that the Nasdaq Staff will provide written notification to us that our common stock will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal the Staff’s determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel, but no assurance can be given that any such appeal would be successful. Alternatively, if our common stock is delisted by Nasdaq, our common stock may be eligible to trade on the American Stock Exchange, the OTC Bulletin Board maintained by Nasdaq, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets where an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, although there can be no assurance that our common stock will be eligible for trading on any alternative exchanges or markets. In addition, we would be subject to Rule 15c2-11 promulgated by the SEC. If we fail to meet criteria set forth in the rule (for example, by failing to file periodic reports as required by the Exchange Act), various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transactions prior to sale. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect the liquidity and price of our common stock. Delisting from Nasdaq could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities. We may need to raise additional financing in fiscal 2008 to fund our continuing operations, support the launch and further development of ClearPath, and other activities. Delisting from Nasdaq also would make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price. It would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Success of our ClearPath breast brachytherapy device will be dependent upon a variety of factors. We previously have announced the introduction of ClearPath, a new brachytherapy device for the treatment of breast cancer. Because we believe that our ClearPath device has certain technical and market advantages, we expect that this device may generate significant revenues in the future. There are a number of factors which could affect our ability to achieve this goal, including: 20 · The successful further development of a commercially marketable device; · The successful launch of a marketing and sales program for this device; · Our ability to protect our intellectual property through patents and licenses and avoid infringement of intellectual property of others; · The successful completion of technical improvements to the device; · Our ability to successfully manufacture production quantities of the device; · The acceptance of the device by physicians and health professionals as an alternative to other approaches to delivering radiation to a cancer patient’s breast tissue or to other products using a similar approach but employing different competitive technologies; and · Our ability to hire and train a direct sales force to sell the device; We may encounter insurmountable obstacles or incur substantially greater costs and delays than anticipated in the development process. From time to time, we have experienced setbacks and delays in our research and development efforts and may encounter further obstacles in the course of the development of additional technologies, products and services. We may not be able to overcome these obstacles or may have to expend significant additional funds and time. Technical obstacles and challenges we encounter in our research and development process may result in delays in or abandonment of product commercialization, may substantially increase the costs of development, and may negatively affect our results of operations. New product developments in the healthcare industry are inherently risky and unpredictable. These risks include: · failure to prove feasibility; · time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; · timing and cost of regulatory approvals and clearances; · competitors' responses to new product developments; · manufacturing cost overruns; · failure to obtain customer acceptance and payment; and · excess inventory caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products. The high cost of technological innovation is coupled with rapid and significant change in the regulations governing the products that compete in our market, by industry standards that could change on short notice, and by the introduction of new products and technologies that could render existing products and technologies uncompetitive. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhancements to our existing products. Without successful new product introductions, our revenues likely will continue to suffer, as competition erodes average selling prices. Even if customers accept new or enhanced products, the costs associated with making these products available to customers, as well as our ability to obtain capital to finance such costs, could reduce or prevent us from increasing our operating margins. All of our product lines are subject to intense competition. Our most significant competitors have greater resources than we do. As a result, we cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop superior technologies, larger more experienced sales forces or otherwise be able to compete against us more effectively. If we fail to maintain our competitive position in key product areas, we may lose or be unable to develop significant sources of revenue. We believe that our Prospera brachytherapy seeds, our SurTRAK strands and needles and our new ClearPath device can generate substantial revenues in the future. We will need to continue to develop enhancements to these products and improvements on our core technologies in order to compete effectively. Rapid change and technological innovation characterize the marketplace for medical products, and our competitors could develop technologies that are superior to our products or that render such products obsolete. We anticipate that expenditures for research and development will continue to be significant. The domestic and foreign markets for radiation therapy are highly competitive. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantial installed bases of products and significantly greater financial, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. Competition may increase as emerging and established companies enter the field. In addition, the marketplace could conclude that the tasks our products were designed to perform are no longer elements of a generally accepted treatment regimen. This could result in us having to reduce production volumes or discontinue production of one or more of our products. 21 Our primary competitors in the brachytherapy seed business include: C.R. Bard, Inc. Oncura, and Core Oncology, all of whom manufacture and sell Iodine-125 brachytherapy seeds, as well as distribute Palladium-103 seeds manufactured by a third party (in the case of Oncura and Core Oncology, we currently manufacture a portion of their Palladium-103 seed requirements pursuant to distribution agreements reached with Oncura in July 2005 and with Core Oncology in August 2007); and Theragenics Corporation, which manufacturers Palladium-103 seeds, and sells Palladium-103 and Iodine-125 brachytherapy seeds directly and its Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds through marketing relationships with third parties. Several additional companies currently sell brachytherapy seeds as well. Our SurTRAK strands and needles are subject to competition from a number of companies, including Worldwide Medical Technologies, Inc. Our new ClearPath-HDR device for treatment of breast cancer is, like its competitors, designed to connect to a source of high-dose-rate (HDR) radiation, which is administered in a specially shielded room in a hospital. It faces competition from Hologic, Inc., SenoRx, Inc. and Cianna Medical (previously BioLucent, Inc.). The MammoSite RTS device from Hologic, Inc., currently the market leader, uses a balloon and catheter system to place the radiation source directly into the post-lumpectomy cavity. The Contura MLB device developed by SenoRx, Inc. also uses a balloon and catheter system to deliver the radiation dose. The SAVI device manufactured by Cianna Medical does not use a balloon and is comprised of an expandable bundle of 6 catheters. Our radiation reference source business also is subject to intense competition. Competitors in this industry include AEA Technology PLC and Eckert & Ziegler AG. We believe that these companies have a dominant position in the market for radiation reference source products. Because we are a relatively small company, there is a risk that potential customers will purchase products from larger manufacturers, even if our products are technically superior, based on the perception that a larger, more established manufacturer may offer greater certainty of continued product improvements, support and service, which could cause our revenues to decline. In addition, many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater sales, marketing and financial resources than we do. Developments by any of these or other companies or advances by medical researchers at universities, government facilities or private laboratories could render our products obsolete. Moreover, companies with substantially greater financial resources, as well as more extensive experience in research and development, the regulatory approval process, manufacturing and marketing, may be in a better position to seize market opportunities created by technological advances in our industry. We are highly dependent on our direct sales organization, which is small compared to many of our competitors. Also, we will need to hire and train additional sales representatives to sell our ClearPath device. Any failure to build, manage and maintain our direct sales organization could negatively affect our revenues. Our current domestic direct sales force is small relative to many of our competitors. There is intense competition for skilled sales and marketing employees, particularly for people who have experience in the radiation oncology market. Accordingly, we could find it difficult to hire or retain skilled individuals to sell our products. Any failure to build our direct sales force could adversely affect our growth and our ability to meet our revenue goals. 22 As a result of our relatively small sales force the need to hire and train additional sales representatives to sell our ClearPath device, and the intense competition for skilled sales and marketing employees, there can be no assurance that our direct sales and marketing efforts will be successful. If we are not successful in our direct sales and marketing, our sales revenue and results of operations are likely to be materially adversely affected. We depend partially on our relationships with distributors and other industry participants to market some of our products, and if these relationships are discontinued or if we are unable to develop new relationships, our revenues could decline. Our 2005 agreement with Oncura, Inc. and our 2007 agreement with Core Oncology, Inc. for distribution of our Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds are important components of that business. In addition, we do not have a direct sales force for our non-therapeutic radiation source products, and rely entirely on the efforts of agents and distributors for sales of those non-brachytherapy products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with our agents and distributors for the sale of our Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds and our non-therapeutic radiation source products. We depend partially on our relationships with two large customers that each comprise more than 10% of our revenue. If these relationships are discontinued or if we are unable to develop new relationships, our revenues could decline. Our sales to Oncura, Inc. and Pinestar Technology, Inc. each comprised more than 10% of our revenue for 2007. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with our large customers for the sale of our Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds and our non-therapeutic radiation source products. If we are sued for product-related liabilities, the cost could be prohibitive to us. The testing, marketing and sale of human healthcare products entail an inherent exposure to product liability claims. Third parties may successfully assert product liability claims against us. Although we currently have insurance covering claims against our products, we may not be able to maintain this insurance at acceptable cost in the future, if at all. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover particularly large claims. Significant product liability claims could result in large and unexpected expenses as well as a costly distraction of management resources and potential negative publicity and reduced demand for our products. Currently, our revenues are primarily derived from products predominantly used in the treatment of tumors of the prostate. If we do not obtain wider acceptance of our products to treat other types of cancer, our sales could fail to increase and we could fail to achieve our desired growth rate. Currently, our brachytherapy products are used almost exclusively for the treatment of prostate cancer. Further research, clinical data and years of experience will likely be required before there can be broad acceptance for the use of our brachytherapy products for additional types of cancer. If our products do not become more widely accepted in treating other types of cancer, our sales could fail to increase or could decrease. We rely on several sole source suppliers and a limited number of other suppliers to provide raw materials and significant components used in our products. A material interruption in supply could prevent or limit our ability to accept and fill orders for our products. 23 We depend upon a limited number of outside unaffiliated suppliers for our radioisotopes. Our principal suppliers are Nordion International, Inc. and Eckert & Ziegler AG. We also utilize other commercial isotope manufacturers located in the United States and overseas. To date, we have been able to obtain the required radioisotopes for our products without any significant delays or interruptions. Currently, we rely exclusively upon Nordion International for our supply of the Palladium-103 isotope; if Nordion International ceases to supply isotopes in sufficient quantity to meet our needs, there may not be adequate alternative sources of supply. If we lose any of these suppliers (including any single-source supplier), we would be required to find and enter into supply arrangements with one or more replacement suppliers. Obtaining alternative sources of supply could involve significant delays and other costs and these supply sources may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. Any disruption of supplies could delay delivery of our products that use radioisotopes, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could result in lost or deferred sales. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may be unable to meet our growth and revenue needs. Our success is materially dependent on a limited number of key employees, and, in particular, the continued services of John B. Rush, our president and chief executive officer, L. Michael Cutrer, our executive vice president and chief technology officer, Troy A. Barring, our chief operating officer, and James W. Klingler, our chief financial officer. Our future business and financial results could be adversely affected if the services of Messrs. Rush, Cutrer, Barring or Klingler or other key employees cease to be available. To our knowledge, none of our key employees have any plans to retire or leave in the near future. Our future success and ability to grow our business will depend in part on the continued service of our skilled personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. Although some employees are bound by a limited non-competition agreement that they sign upon employment, few of our employees are bound by employment contracts, and it is difficult to find qualified personnel, particularly medical physicists and customer service personnel, who are willing to travel extensively. We compete for qualified personnel with medical equipment manufacturers, universities and research institutions. Because the competition for these personnel is intense, costs related to compensation may increase significantly. Even when we are able to hire a qualified medical physicist, engineer or other technical person, there is a significant training period of up to several months before that person is fully capable of performing the functions we need. This could limit our ability to expand our business. The medical device industry is characterized by competing intellectual property, and we could be sued for violating the intellectual property rights of others, which may require us to withdraw certain products from the market. The medical device industry is characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of patent litigation actions is often uncertain. Our competitors could assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by United States or foreign patent rights held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there could be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which could later result in issued patents that our products infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more of our products could inadvertently be infringing of which we are unaware. 24 While we do not believe that any of our products, services or technologies infringe any valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of third-party intellectual property rights that relate to our products, services or technologies. As the number of competitors in the radiation oncology market grows, and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us going forward increases. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources if we have to assert our patent rights against others. An unfavorable outcome to any litigation could harm us. In addition, we may not be able to detect infringement or may lose competitive position in the market before we do so. To address patent infringement or other intellectual property claims, we may have to enter into license agreements and technology cross-licenses or agree to pay royalties at a substantial cost to us. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses. A valid claim against us and our failure to obtain a license for the technology at issue could prevent us from selling our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial results and future prospects. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights do not adequately cover the technologies we employ, or if such rights are declared to be invalid, other companies may take advantage of our technology ideas and more effectively compete directly against us, or we might be forced to discontinue selling certain products. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and enforce patent protections for our products and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We rely on U.S. and foreign patents to protect our intellectual property. We also rely significantly on trade secrets and know-how that we seek to protect. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by filing patent applications for new features and products we develop. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, independent contractors and corporate partners, and we seek to control access to our intellectual property and the distribution of our products, documentation and other proprietary information. We plan to continue these methods to protect our intellectual property and our products. These measures may afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, making the outcome uncertain. Competitors could also bring actions or counterclaims attempting to invalidate our patents. Even if we are successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be costly and could divert our management's attention. In 2006, we licensed intellectual property which was later the subject of litigation brought by WorldWide Medical Technologies in U.S. District Court against both us and our former employee, Richard Terwilliger, who was previously our Vice-President of New Product Development. This intellectual property relates to our brachytherapy business, specifically, certain needle-loading and stranding technologies. While we do not believe that we have any liability in this matter, and are vigorously defending ourself in the litigation, we cannot predict what effect an adverse result from this litigation would have on our future sales of the products at issue. We use radioactive materials which are subject to stringent regulation and which may subject us to liability if accidents occur. 25 We manufacture and process radioactive materials which are subject to stringent regulation. We operate under licenses issued by the California Department of Health which are renewable every eight years. We received a renewal of our licenses for our North Hollywood and Chatsworth facilities in 2007. California is one of the "Agreement States," which are so named because the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or NRC, has granted such states regulatory authority over radioactive materials, provided such states have regulatory standards meeting or exceeding the standards imposed by the NRC. Most users of our products must obtain licenses issued by the state in which they reside (if they are Agreement States) or the NRC. Use licenses are also required by some of the foreign jurisdictions in which we may seek to market our products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these radioactive materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. We believe we carry reasonably adequate insurance to cover us in the event of any damages resulting from the use of hazardous materials. Healthcare reforms, changes in health-care policies and unfavorable changes to third-party reimbursements for use of our products could cause declines in the revenues of our products, and could hamper the introduction of new products. Hospitals and freestanding clinics may be less likely to purchase our products if they cannot be assured of receiving favorable reimbursement for treatments using our products from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans. Generally speaking, Medicare pays hospitals, freestanding clinics and physicians a fixed amount for services using our products, regardless of the costs incurred by those providers in furnishing the services. Such providers may perceive the set reimbursement amounts as inadequate to compensate for the costs incurred and thus may be reluctant to furnish the services for which our products are designed. Moreover, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical procedures or limiting or prohibiting reimbursement for some services or devices, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels for our products. There is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we can provide no assurance that procedures using our products will qualify for reimbursement from third-party payors or that reimbursement rates will not be reduced or eliminated. A reduction in or elimination of third-party payor reimbursement for treatments using our products would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Furthermore, any federal and state efforts to reform government and private healthcare insurance programs could significantly affect the purchase of healthcare services and products in general and demand for our products in particular. We are unable to predict whether potential reforms will be enacted, whether other healthcare legislation or regulation affecting the business may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The federal Medicare program currently reimburses hospitals and freestanding clinics for brachytherapy treatments. Medicare reimbursement amounts typically are reviewed and adjusted at least annually. Medicare reimbursement policies are reviewed and revised on an ad hoc basis. Adjustments could be made to these reimbursement policies or amounts, which could result in reduced or no reimbursement for brachytherapy services. Changes in Medicare reimbursement policies or amounts affecting hospitals and freestanding clinics could negatively affect market demand for our products. Medicare reimbursement amounts for seeding are currently significantly less than for radical prostatectomy, or RP. Although seeding generally requires less physician time than RP, lower reimbursement amounts, when combined with physician familiarity with RP, may create disincentives for urologists to perform seeding. 26 Private third-party payors often adopt Medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts. As such, Medicare reimbursement policy and payment amount changes concerning our products also could be extended to private third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts and could affect demand for our products in those markets as well. Acceptance of our products in foreign markets could be affected by the availability of adequate reimbursement or funding, as the case may be, within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement, funding and healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We can provide no assurance that third-party reimbursement will be made available with respect to treatments using our products under any foreign reimbursement system. Problems with any of these reimbursement systems that adversely affect demand for our products could cause our revenues from our products to decline and our business to suffer. Also, we, our distributors and healthcare providers performing radiation therapy procedures are subject to state and federal fraud and abuse laws prohibiting kickbacks and, in the case of physicians, patient self-referrals. We may be subjected to civil and criminal penalties if we or our agents violate any of these prohibitions. We are subject to extensive government regulation applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products. Complying with the Food And Drug Administration and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies is an expensive and time-consuming process, whose outcome can be difficult to predict. If we fail or are delayed in obtaining regulatory approvals or fail to comply with applicable regulations, we may be unable to market and distribute our products or may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. We and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation of the manufacture and distribution of our products, both in the United States and in foreign countries. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and changes to or failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or adoption of new laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business. In the United States, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the State of California, to ensure such devices are safe and effective. Such regulations, which include the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act, and regulations promulgated by the FDA, govern the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, possession, marketing, disposal, clinical investigations involving humans, sale and marketing of medical devices, post-market surveillance, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation producing devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. State regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. Our brachytherapy seeds constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. Future products in any of our business segments may constitute medical devices and be subject to regulation as such. These laws require that manufacturers adhere to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and effective. Under the FDC Act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with requirements applicable to manufacturing practices. 27 In the United States, medical devices are classified into three different categories, over which the FDA applies increasing levels of regulation: Class I, Class II and Class III. The FDA has classified all of our brachytherapy products as Class I devices. Before a new device can be introduced into the United States market, the manufacturer must obtain FDA clearance or approval through either a 510(k) premarket notification or a premarket approval, unless the product is otherwise exempt from the requirements. Class I devices are statutorily exempt from the 510(k) process, unless the device is intended for a use which is of substantial importance in preventing impairment of human health or it presents a potential unreasonable risk of illness or injury. A 510(k) premarket notification clearance will typically be granted for a device that is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed Class I or Class II medical device or a Class III medical device for which the FDA has not yet required submission of a premarket approval. A 510(k) premarket notification must contain information supporting the claim of substantial equivalence, which may include laboratory results or the results of clinical studies. Following submission of a 510(k) premarket notification, a company may not market the device for clinical use until the FDA finds the product is substantially equivalent for a specific or general intended use. FDA clearance generally takes from four to twelve months, but it may take longer, and there is no assurance that the FDA will ultimately grant a clearance. The FDA may determine that a device is not substantially equivalent and require submission and approval of a premarket approval or require further information before it is able to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. Most of the products that we are currently marketing have received clearances from the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process. For any devices already cleared through the 510(k) process, modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a major change in intended use require a new 510(k) submission and a separate FDA determination of substantial equivalence. We have made minor modifications to our products and, using the guidelines established by the FDA, have determined that these modifications do not require us to file new 510(k) submissions. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, we may not be able to sell one or more of our products until the FDA has cleared new 510(k) submissions for these modifications, and there is no assurance that the FDA will ultimately grant a clearance. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain premarket approval process under Section 515 of the FDC. The approval process under Section 515 generally takes from one to three years, but in many cases can take even longer, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Under the premarket approval process, an applicant must generally conduct at least one clinical investigation and submit extensive supporting data and clinical information establishing the safety and effectiveness of the device, as well as extensive manufacturing information. Clinical investigations themselves are typically lengthy and expensive, closely regulated and frequently require prior FDA clearance. Even if clinical investigations are conducted, there is no assurance that they will support the claims for the product. If the FDA requires us to submit a new pre-market notification under Section 510(k) for modifications to our existing products, or if the FDA requires us to go through the lengthier, more rigorous Section 515 pre-market approval process, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or cancelled, which could cause our revenues to be below expectations. In addition to FDA-required market clearances and approvals, our manufacturing operations are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which addresses the quality program requirements, such as a company's management responsibility for the company's quality systems, and good manufacturing practices, product design, controls, methods, facilities and quality assurance controls used in manufacturing, assembly, packing, storing and installing medical devices. Compliance with the QSR is necessary to receive FDA clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for us to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings. There can be no assurance that we will not incur significant costs to comply with these regulations in the future or that the regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our compliance and the compliance by some of our suppliers with applicable regulatory requirements are and will continue to be monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. The FDA makes announced and unannounced inspections to determine compliance with the QSR's and may issue us 483 reports listing instances where we have failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures or Warning Letters which, if not adequately responded to, could lead to enforcement actions against us, including fines, the total shutdown of our production facilities and criminal prosecution. 28 If we or any of our suppliers fail to comply with FDA requirements, the FDA can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: • fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • the recall or seizure of our products; • the imposition of operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • the refusal of our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products; • the withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals already granted; and • criminal prosecution. Similar consequences could arise from our failure, or the failure by any of our suppliers, to comply with applicable foreign laws and regulations. Foreign regulatory requirements vary by country. In general, our products are regulated outside the United States as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the FDA. However, the time and cost required to obtain regulatory approvals from foreign countries could be longer than that required for FDA clearance and the requirements for licensing a product in another country may differ significantly from the FDA requirements. We rely, in part, on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. We may not be able to obtain these approvals without incurring significant expenses or at all, and the failure to obtain these approvals would prevent us from selling our products in the applicable countries. This could limit our sales and growth. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to penetrate foreign markets, particularly in Asia and Europe. However, we have encountered difficulties in gaining acceptance of our products in foreign markets, where we have limited experience marketing, servicing and distributing our products, and where we will be subject to additional regulatory burdens and other risks. Our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to establish, grow and ultimately maintain our product sales in foreign markets, particularly in Asia and Europe. However, we have limited experience in marketing, servicing and distributing our products in other countries. In 2007, less than 5% of our product revenues and less than 5% of our total revenues were derived from sales to customers outside the United States and Canada. Our foreign operations subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, including: • our customers' ability to obtain reimbursement for procedures using our products in foreign markets; • the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign regulatory requirements; • language barriers and other difficulties in providing long-range customer support and service; • longer accounts receivable collection times; • significant currency fluctuations, which could cause our distributors to reduce the number of products they purchase from us because the cost of our products to them could fluctuate relative to the price they can charge their customers; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; and • the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute. 29 Our foreign sales of our products could also be adversely affected by export license requirements, the imposition of governmental controls, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, any violation of which could create a substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue transactions that may cause us to experience significant charges to earnings that may adversely affect our stock price and financial condition. We regularly review potential transactions related to technologies, product candidates or product rights and businesses complementary to our business. Such transactions could include mergers, acquisitions, strategic alliances, licensing agreements or co-promotion agreements. Our acquisition of Theseus Imaging Corporation in October 2000 and the acquisition of NOMOS, in May 2004, are examples of such transactions. In the future, if we have sufficient available capital, we may choose to enter into such transactions. We may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our business and the process could be expensive and time consuming and may strain our resources. Depending upon the nature of any transaction, we may experience a charge to earnings which could be material. Operating results for a particular period may fluctuate and are difficult to predict. The results of operations for any fiscal quarter or fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of a number of factors. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict. Such factors include the following: · Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than experienced in previous periods and, in particular periods, may decline; · Our future sales growth is highly dependent on the successful introduction of our ClearPath device; · Our brachytherapy product lines may experience some variability in revenue due to seasonality. This is primarily due to three major holidays occurring in our first fiscal quarter and the apparent reduction in the number of procedures performed during summer months, which could affect our third fiscal quarter results; · Estimates with respect to the useful life and ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including goodwill and purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions; · As a result of our growth in past periods, our fixed costs have increased. With increased levels of spending and the impact of long-term commitments, we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes; · Acquisitions that result in in-process research and development expenses may be charged fully in an individual quarter; · Changes or anticipated change in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products; · Timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us and by our competitors; · The possibility that unexpected levels of cancellations of orders or backlog may affect certain assumptions upon which we base our forecasts and predictions of future performance; · Changes in the general economic conditions in the regions in which we do business; · Unfavorable outcome of any litigation; and · Accounting adjustments such as those relating to reserves for product recalls, stock option expensing as required under SFAS No. 123R and changes in interpretation of accounting pronouncements 30 Being a public company significantly increases our administrative costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and listing requirements subsequently adopted by NASDAQ in response to Sarbanes-Oxley, have required changes in corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee practices of public companies. These rules, regulations and requirements have significantly increased our legal, financial, compliance and administrative costs, and have made certain other activities more time consuming and costly, as well as requiring substantial time and attention of our senior management. We expect our continued compliance with these and future rules and regulations to continue to require significant resources. These new rules and regulations also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members for our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. Our publicly-filed SEC reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Market volatility and fluctuations in our stock price and trading volume may cause sudden decreases in the value of an investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock has historically been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The price of our common stock has ranged between $0.28 and $1.75 per share in the fifty-two week period ended October 31, 2007, and through the date prior to this filing has been as low as $0.20 per share. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the medical device sector, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Factors such as announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or disappointing results by third parties, as well as market conditions in our industry, may significantly influence the market price of our common stock. Our stock price has also been affected by our own public announcements regarding such things as quarterly sales and earnings. Consequently, events both within and beyond our control may cause shares of our stock to lose their value rapidly. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by stockholders could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In connection with our January 2008 sale of common stock and accompanying warrants, we intend to file resale registration statements covering an aggregate of up to 63,008,140 shares of common stock and 3,150,407 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants for the benefit of the selling security holders. The actual or anticipated resale by such investors under these registration statements may depress the market price of our common stock. Bulk sales of shares of our common stock in a short period of time could also cause the market price for our shares to decline. 31 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 