Item 1A. Risk Factors We have experienced significant losses and may continue to incur such losses in the future. As a result, the amount of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities has materially declined. If we continue to incur significant losses and are unable to access sufficient working capital from our operations or through external financings, we will be unable to fund future operations and operate as a going concern. We have incurred substantial net losses in each of the last six fiscal years. As reflected in our financial statements, we have experienced net losses of $55.5 million, $36.3 million, and $9.4 million in our fiscal years ended October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As a result, the amount of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable securities has significantly declined from approximately $49.1 million at October 31, 2003 to $3.6 million at October 31, 2005. The decrease over the past two year period was primarily attributed to net cash payments of $26.3 million used in continuing operating activities, $13.2 million related to our acquisition of NOMOS, $9.0 million used in the discontinued Theseus operations, and $1.6 million used for capital expenditures, partially offset by $4.6 million in cash received from the exercise of stock options and our employee stock purchase plan. The negative cash flow we have sustained has materially reduced our working capital, which in turn, could materially and negatively impact our ability to fund future operations and continue to operate as a going concern. Management has and continues to take actions to improve our results. These actions include reducing cash operating expenses, developing new technologies and products, improving existing technologies and products, and expanding into new geographical markets. The availability of necessary working capital, however, is subject to many factors beyond our control, including, our ability to obtain favorable financing, economic cycles, market acceptance of our products, competitors’ responses to our products, the intensity of competition in our markets, the level of demand for our products etc. The amount of working capital that we will need in the future will also depend on our efforts and many factors, including: · Our ability to successfully market and sell our products; · Continued scientific progress in our discovery and research programs; · Levels of sales and marketing that will be required to launch future products and achieve and maintain a competitive position in the marketplace for both existing and new products; · Levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain; · Level of capital expenditures; · Acquisition or development of other businesses, technologies or products; · The time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; · The costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending, and enforcing patent claims; and · The potential need to develop, acquire or license new technologies and products. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts or if any or some of these factors negatively impact us, we will need to raise additional capital, reduce operations or take other steps to achieve positive cash flow. Although we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts or that any or some of these factors will not negatively impact us, we believe that we will have sufficient cash to sustain us at least through the fiscal year ending October 31, 2006. 23 We may be unable to obtain capital on favorable terms or at all. Continued operating losses would materially reduce our remaining cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. We have had to restructure our $5 Million credit line financing arrangement with Silicon Valley Bank into an asset based loan arrangement with warrants. Should we need to secure additional debt or equity financing and are unable to obtain it on acceptable terms or at all, we may be required to further reduce expenses or to take other steps which could have a material adverse effect on our future performance, including but not limited to, the premature sale of some or all of our assets or product lines on undesirable terms, merger with or acquisition by another company on unsatisfactory terms, or the cessation of operations. Future financing transactions will have a dilutive effect on our existing shareholders. The Company is currently considering certain financing arrangements that include a significant number of warrants, which will result in dilution of the Company’s current shareholders. In the future, the Company anticipates issuing equity, debt or convertible securities to raise capital. If the Company does so, the percentage ownership of the Company held by existing shareholders would be further reduced, and existing shareholders would experience significant dilution. In addition, new investors in the Company may demand rights, preferences or privileges that differ from, or are senior to, those of our existing shareholders, such as warrants in addition to the securities purchased and other protections against future dilutive transactions. In addition, any capital we may be able to raise could result in increased debt on our balance sheet, additional interest and financing expense and/or decreased operating income. We may be required to record additional goodwill impairment in the future. Under SFAS 142 and SFAS 144, goodwill and intangible assets having an indefinite life are not amortized but are subject to testing at least annually, or more often if an event occurs or circumstances indicate that the carrying values for goodwill and/or intangible assets may be impaired, using a fair value based approach. Accounting for impairment contains uncertainty because management must use judgment in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. The Company engaged an appraisal firm to perform an analysis of the goodwill and intangible assets acquired from NOMOS, to determine the fair value thereof under the applicable standards as of the Company’s annual test date of September 30, 2005. As a result of this testing, in the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company recorded impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of NOMOS in the amount of $39,884,000, and impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of Radiation Therapy Products (“RTP”) in the amount of $329,000, in each case due to negative operating performance indications including declining sales and continued operating losses of the respective business segments. The Company will continue to monitor impairment indicators in any of our reporting segments. If our future financial performance or other events indicate that the value of our recorded goodwill or intangible assets is further impaired, we may record additional impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our reported results. All of our product lines are subject to intense competition. Our most significant competitors have greater resources than we do. As a result, we cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop superior technologies or otherwise be able to compete against us more effectively. If we fail to maintain our competitive position in key product areas, we may lose significant sources of revenue. We expect that our intensity-modulated radiation therapy, or IMRT, and image-guided radiation therapy, or IGRT, product lines, including CORVUS, PEACOCK and BAT, will generate a substantial part of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We will need to continue to develop enhancements to these products and improvements on our core technologies in order to compete effectively. Rapid change 24 and technological innovation characterize the marketplace for medical products, and our competitors could develop technologies that are superior to our products or that render such products obsolete. We anticipate that expenditures for research and development will continue to be significant. The domestic and foreign markets for radiation therapy equipment are highly competitive. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantial installed bases of products and significantly greater financial, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. Competition may increase as emerging and established companies enter the field. In addition, the marketplace could conclude that the tasks our products were designed to perform are no longer elements of a generally accepted treatment regimen. This could result in us having to reduce production volumes or discontinue production of one or more IMRT/IGRT products. Our single largest competitor in the IMRT/IGRT market is Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (“Varian”). Varian is the largest worldwide manufacturer, in terms of market share, of linear accelerators. Linear accelerators are the machines that generate the radiation energy beams used in both IMRT and conventional radiation treatment. Varian also markets its own line of IMRT products, including several models of multileaf collimators and an IMRT inverse planning software package, which it often includes with its linear accelerators. Varian is also one of the principal providers of record and verification systems, which are systems that keep track of all critical information in the treatment of radiation therapy patients and which allow the planning system to communicate with the linear accelerator. Varian recently acquired Zmed, Inc., one of our principal competitors for BAT. Varian expects the acquisition to enhance its 3-D ultrasound imaging capabilities and offer radiation oncology departments a new line of stereotactic positioning accessories and planning software, allowing Varian to directly compete against BAT. We also compete with Siemens and Elekta, each of which manufactures one or more multileaf collimators that compete with MIMiC and, therefore, with our integrated system, PEACOCK. There are several other companies that currently offer or plan to offer IMRT modules, which typically add IMRT functionality to conventional radiation treatment planning products. Finally, we compete with all manufacturers of conventional radiation therapy products many of which are devoting substantial resources to promoting their products. Our brachytherapy business is also subject to intense competition. Our primary competitors in the brachytherapy seed business include: Nycomed Amersham PLC (through its control of Oncura) and C.R Bard, Inc., both of whom manufacture and sell Iodine-125 brachytherapy seeds, as well as distribute Palladium-103 seeds manufactured by a third party (in the case of Oncura, we currently manufacture a portion of its Palladium-103 seed requirements pursuant to a distribution agreement reached in July, 2005); Mentor, which manufactures and sells Iodine-125 brachytherapy seeds and currently distributes third party manufactured Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds; and Theragenics Corporation, which manufacturers Palladium-103 seeds and sells Palladium-103 and Iodine-125 brachytherapy seeds directly and its Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds through marketing relationships with third parties. Several additional companies currently sell brachytherapy seeds as well. Recent market changes have also provided additional competition for brachytherapy-related services, such as pre-loading needles with seeds and placing seeds in so-called “strands.” Our radiation reference source business also is subject to intense competition. Competitors in this industry include AEA Technology PLC and Eckert & Ziegler AG. We believe that these companies have a dominant position in the market for radiation reference source products. Because we are a relatively small company, there is a risk that potential customers will purchase products from larger manufacturers, even if our products are technically superior, based on the perception that a larger, more established manufacturer may offer greater certainty of continued product improvements, support and service, which could cause our revenues to decline. In addition, many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater sales, marketing and financial resources than we do. 25 Developments by any of these or other companies or advances by medical researchers at universities, government facilities or private laboratories could render our products obsolete. Moreover, companies with substantially greater financial resources, as well as more extensive experience in research and development, the regulatory approval process, manufacturing and marketing, may be in a better position to seize market opportunities created by technological advances in our industry. We are highly dependent on our direct sales organization, which is small compared to many of our competitors and which has relatively limited marketing and sales experience in brachytherapy and IMRT/IGRT products. We have also experienced a high degree of turnover in our sales organization. Any failure to build , manage and maintain our direct sales organization could negatively affect our revenues. Our current domestic direct sales force is small relative to many of our competitors. There is intense competition for skilled sales and marketing employees, particularly for people who have experience in the radiation oncology market. Accordingly, we could find it difficult to hire or retain skilled individuals to sell our products. Any failure to build our direct sales force could adversely affect our growth and our ability to meet our revenue goals. In addition, we have experienced higher than anticipated turnover in our domestic direct sales force following our acquisition of NOMOS Corporation, which has resulted in a relative lack of experience in selling IMRT/IGRT products. As a result of our relatively small sales force and the lack of continuity in our sales force, there can be no assurance that our direct sales and marketing efforts will be successful. If we are not successful in our direct sales and marketing, our sales revenue and results of operations are likely to be materially adversely affected. We depend partially on our relationships with distributors and other industry participants to market some of our products, and if these relationships are discontinued or if we are unable to develop new relationships, our revenues could decline. We currently rely, and will continue to rely, upon collaborative relationships with agents and distributors and other industry participants to maintain IMRT/IGRT market access to potential customers, particularly in Asia and Europe, and our business strategy includes entering into more of these relationships in the future. Some of the entities with whom we have relationships to help market and distribute our products also produce or distribute products that directly compete with our IMRT/IGRT products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or develop these relationships with agents and distributors and other industry participants or that these relationships will continue to be successful. If any of these relationships is terminated, not renewed or otherwise unsuccessful, or if we are unable to develop additional relationships, our product sales could decline, and our ability to grow our IMRT/IGRT business could be adversely affected. This is particularly the case with respect to foreign sales of our IMRT/IGRT products, where we currently rely, and we will continue to rely, on our distributors’ expertise regarding foreign regulatory matters and their access to actual and potential customers. In addition, our 2005 agreement with Oncura for distribution of our Palladium-103 brachytherapy seeds may be an important component of that business. We do not have a direct sales force for our non-therapeutic radiation source products, and rely entirely on the efforts of agents and distributors for sales of those non-brachytherapy products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with our agents and distributors for the sale of our non-therapeutic radiation source products. 26 One of our primary markets in our IMRT product line is the market for upgrading linear accelerators that do not have IMRT capabilities to provide them with IMRT capabilities. This market will shrink over time, thereby limiting our potential revenues from the upgrading of linear accelerators. To date, a majority of our revenues from the sale of our IMRT products has been derived from the sale of these products to customers who decide to upgrade linear accelerators that do not have IMRT capabilities to enable them to deliver IMRT treatments. Most of these linear accelerators are older models. Selling CORVUS to customers with newer multileaf collimator-equipped linear accelerators can be difficult because these linear accelerators may be offered with IMRT planning software at little or no additional cost. Accordingly, to make a sale, we often must convince these potential customers that CORVUS is sufficiently superior to the IMRT or conventional radiation treatment planning software products offered by the manufacturer to justify the additional costs of purchase. Selling PEACOCK and MIMiC to potential customers with newer multileaf collimator-equipped linear accelerators is even more difficult because, in addition to the incremental costs of purchase, these potential customers may be reluctant to incur the additional effort required to retrofit the factory installed multileaf collimator with MIMiC. Over time, if more institutions purchase new linear accelerators that are IMRT-equipped or upgrade their older accelerators with technology from us or our competitors, the market for upgrading linear accelerators that do not have IMRT capabilities will shrink and may become saturated, which could adversely affect our sales and limit our potential revenues from our products. We may be unable to successfully integrate NOMOS’ operations with our operations. The acquisition of NOMOS in May 2004 has required the integration of NOMOS with our Company. This integration has taken longer and demanded more financial and other resources that we had originally anticipated. Though virtually all of the infrastructure-related integration tasks have been completed, integration in other areas, such as sales and marketing and certain operational areas remain ongoing. As the integration continues, it remains a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The challenges of combining the two companies’ operations have included and may continue to involve, among other things: · Requiring the diversion of management resources to facilitate the integration; · Implementing compatible information communication systems, common operating procedures, compatible financial controls and comparable human resources practices; · Coordinating sales and marketing functions; · Preserving our research and development, collaboration, distribution, marketing, promotion and other important relationships and those of NOMOS; · The necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; · Integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; · Consolidating corporate and administrative functions; and · Retaining key employees. The process of continued integration of NOMOS and the historic Company operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the two companies’ operations could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or future prospects. 27 If we are unable to complete current developments or to develop new enhancements and new generations of IMRT/IGRT and/or brachytherapy products, we may be unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. Rapid and significant technological change, evolving industry standards and new product introductions characterize the market for our products. Many of our products are technologically innovative and require significant planning, design, development and testing. These activities require significant capital commitments and investment. If we are unable to raise needed capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to maintain our competitive advantage in the marketplace. New product developments in the healthcare industry are inherently risky and unpredictable. These risks include: · failure to prove feasibility; · time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; · timing and cost of regulatory approvals and clearances; · competitors’ response to new product developments; · manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance cost overruns; · failure to obtain customer acceptance and payment; · customer demands for retrofits of both old and new products; and · excess inventory caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products. The high cost of technological innovation is coupled with rapid and significant change in the regulations governing the products that compete in our market, by industry standards that could change on short notice, and by the introduction of new products and technologies that could render existing products and technologies uncompetitive. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop new products or enhancements to our existing products. Without successful new product introductions, our revenues will likely suffer. Even if customers accept new or enhanced products, the costs associated with making these products available to customers, as well as our ability to obtain capital to finance such costs, could reduce or prevent us from increasing our operating margins. We are currently awaiting FDA 510(k) clearance for our nomosSTAT product, which represents the next generation of our currently marketed PEACOCK product. The successful introduction of nomosSTAT is critical to our ability to achieve our sales targets for fiscal 2006. Any unforeseen delay in 510(k) clearance from the FDA, or lack of acceptance in the market following such clearance, may result in a materially adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, although we have received FDA 510(k) clearance for our PEREGRINE dose calculation software product, and it may now be used clinically to treat patients for one linear accelerator beam modifier combination,, we are still in the process of finalizing the development of PEREGRINE in order to allow it to be used with a broader range of linear accelerators, energy levels with those linear accelerators, and treatment planning systems without the need for extensive commissioning and testing. An inability to complete these developments on a timely basis could adversely affect our relationship with the early purchasers of PEREGRINE, and could adversely impact our ability to sell PEREGRINE to new customers. Any failure to successfully complete these developments could also hurt our reputation and, therefore, adversely impact sales of other our products. 28 We might not be able to make our IMRT products compatible with some existing linear accelerators and other radiation therapy products. In addition, any future changes in the configuration of the most common linear accelerators could require costly and time-consuming modifications to our products that could harm our business. Our IMRT products are designed to be used in conjunction with most linear accelerators currently in use. Our products are not currently compatible with all linear accelerators. However, when manufacturers modify the design or functionality of their machines, we are often required to modify our products to ensure compatibility. Future changes cannot be predicted and, in the case of changes initiated by linear accelerator manufacturers who are our competitors, could be made or timed to place us at a competitive disadvantage. Responding to these changes can be costly and time-consuming. In addition, we could be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances for any modifications of our products. It is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we might be unable to make our products compatible with new or modified versions of linear accelerators or might only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense. Our PEREGRINE product is not currently fully compatible with the majority of the linear accelerators in the United States and worldwide markets. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in making PEREGRINE compatible with additional linear accelerators, and any future changes in the design of any linear accelerators could require us to redesign the functionality of PEREGRINE. We may not be successful at any such effort. If alternative technologies prove to be superior to IMRT/IGRT or brachytherapy, physician adoption of our products could substantially decrease. Our IMRT/IGRT products face competition from companies that sell conventional radiation therapy products as well as from companies that are developing, marketing and manufacturing alternative therapies to radiation for the treatment of solid tumor cancers. It is possible that advances in the pharmaceutical, bio-medical or gene-therapy fields could render some or all radiation therapies, whether conventional or based on IMRT/IGRT and brachytherapy, obsolete. Even incremental advances in competing technologies could result in the rejection of our products as a part of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. If alternative therapies are proven or perceived to offer treatment options that are superior or more cost effective than the treatments our products provide, physician adoption of our products could be negatively affected and our revenues from our products could decline. There is currently a lack of long-term data regarding the safety and effectiveness of IMRT products and negative data or the continued lack of adequate supporting data could adversely affect market acceptance of our IMRT products. Although we estimate that our IMRT products have been used to treat thousands of patients worldwide, this is still a statistically small number, and these treatments have primarily involved tumors of the prostate, head, neck and spinal cord. Much of the data produced in current studies using IMRT and our products have involved small patient sample sizes, and any positive results of these studies may not be representative of the results that will be achieved in studies involving larger patient sample sizes. If we are unable to obtain additional and more comprehensive clinical studies, or if long-term clinical studies fail to confirm the effectiveness of IMRT or our products, our sales could fail to increase or could decrease. Some theoretical and non-clinical studies, meaning studies that are not based on significant empirical evidence, have suggested that the use of IMRT and potentially our products may cause serious negative side effects, such as a risk of induced cancer, as a result of the increased radiation delivered to the patient. At present, not enough time has passed to determine conclusively the long-term side effects. If future clinical studies confirm that these negative side effects occur as a result of IMRT treatments, our sales could fail to grow or could decline. In addition, if it is shown that our products cause harmful side effects, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, could require us to change our product labeling to describe these potential side effects or could even rescind the clearances for our products and potentially require a recall of our products. 29 IMRT, whether using our products or those of our competitors, requires a substantial departure from customary quality assurance practices. The complexity and dynamic nature of IMRT deliveries make new demands on patient plan and dose verification. These difficulties and departures from customary practices may impede market acceptance of IMRT in general and our products in particular, which could adversely affect our ability to increase sales of our products and achieve our desired growth rate. IMRT treatments expose patients to increased radiation leakage, which could potentially cause long-term deleterious side effects, including induced cancer. In both IMRT and conventional radiation therapy, there is radiation leakage, which means radiation that escapes from the linear accelerator and is absorbed by the patient outside the area of the patient’s body being treated. Linear accelerators are the machines that generate the radiation energy beams used in both IMRT and conventional radiation treatment. Leakage occurs at all times when the linear accelerator is producing radiation. In IMRT treatments, the linear accelerator is required to produce radiation for a longer period of time overall as compared to conventional radiation treatments. Also, in IMRT treatments there is additional leakage that is transmitted through or between the leaves of the multileaf collimator itself. As a result, there is an increase in the overall radiation leakage to which the patient is exposed due to the longer periods of radiation delivery. The increased radiation leakage associated with IMRT treatments could require additional room shielding to protect clinic personnel. In addition, concerns have been raised by some researchers that the increase in overall radiation leakage to which IMRT patients are exposed may have deleterious long-term effects, including the potential for inducing cancer. These same studies suggest that an increase in the long-term risk of induced cancers from IMRT may be possible. The risk, or perceived risk, of induced cancers could slow or prevent expanded use of IMRT to treat additional types of cancers and could even result in decreased usage of IMRT to treat cancers currently treated with IMRT if the increased risk is shown or believed to be significant, which could cause our revenues from our products to decline and our business to suffer. Our IMRT/IGRT products are used in connection with the delivery of intense radiation. Defects in, or misuse of, our products, or any detrimental side effects that result from the use of our products, could result in serious injury or death and could require costly recalls or subject us to costly and time-consuming product liability claims. This could harm future sales and require us to pay substantial damages. Our IMRT/IGRT products are used in connection with the delivery of high-powered external beam radiation to cancer patients. One or more of our IMRT/IGRT products could malfunction or be misused and cause serious injury or death to a patient. In addition, our IMRT/IGRT products might otherwise be determined to cause serious injury or other detrimental side effects. There is an inherent risk in our industry that we could be sued if one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, a personal injury. Although we believe that we currently have adequate insurance to address anticipated potential liabilities associated with product liability, any unforeseen product liability, exposure in excess of, or outside the scope of, such insurance coverage could adversely affect our operating results. Any such claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in significant damage to our business. The FDA’s medical device reporting regulations require us to report any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our products malfunctioned in a way that would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction recurred. Any required filing could result in an investigation of our products and possibly subsequent regulatory action against us if it is found that one of our products caused the death or serious injury of a patient. 30 Because of the nature of our IMRT/IGRT products and their use, the tolerance for error in the design, manufacture or use of our IMRT/IGRT products may be small or nonexistent. If a product designed or manufactured by us is defective, whether due to design or manufacturing defects, or improper assembly, use or servicing of the product or other reasons, the product may need to be recalled, possibly at our expense. Furthermore, the adverse effect of a product recall might not be limited to the cost of the recall. For example, a product recall could cause applicable regulatory authorities to investigate us as well as cause our customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. Recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts, could cause us to suffer substantial costs, lost revenues and a loss of reputation, each of which could harm our business. Products as complex as our planning and dose calculation software systems may also contain undetected software errors or defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects even after they have been tested, which could result in the rejection of our products by our customers and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased support costs. We may also be subject to claims for damages related to any errors in our products. We currently maintain product liability insurance, which has deductible amounts and per claim and aggregate limits. However, we cannot assure you that this insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or in sufficient amounts if at all, or that it will provide adequate coverage in the event that any product liability is actually incurred. Currently, our products are predominantly used in the treatment of tumors of the prostate, head, neck and spinal cord. If we do not obtain wider acceptance of our products to treat other types of cancer, our sales could fail to increase and we could fail to achieve our desired growth rate. Currently, our IMRT/IGRT products are predominantly used in the treatment of tumors of the prostate, head, neck and spinal cord, while our brachytherapy products are used almost exclusively for the treatment of prostate cancer. Further research, clinical data and years of experience will likely be required before there can be broad acceptance for the use of both our IMRT/IGRT as well as our brachytherapy products for additional types of cancer. In particular, some recognized members of the radiation oncology community have expressed skepticism as to the relative benefits of IMRT treatments other than for limited types of cancer such as prostate cancer, where mortality is closely linked to recurrence of the local tumor. They point out that in many types of cancer, such as breast cancer, mortality is usually a result of metastasis, meaning the expansion of the cancer to other parts of the patient’s body, and that eliminating or controlling the growth of the local tumor, which is the goal of IMRT treatments, does little to prevent this from occurring. If our products do not become more widely accepted in treating other types of cancer, our sales could fail to increase or could decrease. We rely on several sole source suppliers and a limited number of other suppliers to provide raw materials and significant components used in our products. A material interruption in supply could prevent or limit our ability to accept and fill orders for our products. Although we perform final product assembly of our IMRT/IGRT products, we purchase all major components for those products from third-party suppliers. We currently rely on a single source of supply for several key materials and components, the most important of which are the tungsten leaves used in our MIMiC multi-leaf collimator and all major components used in our BAT targeting system. We also obtain various other components for our IMRT/IGRT products from a limited number of sources. We cannot produce IMRT/IGRT products without these components. In the event of any extended or recurring interruption in supply, or if any of the significant components to our IMRT/IGRT products become obsolete or are no longer manufactured, we could be required to redesign our products or seek alternative supply sources, which could significantly impair our ability to sell these products. In some cases, we expect 31 that it would take several months, or longer, for a new supplier to begin providing components to specification. In addition, we could be required to make a new or supplemental filing with the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities and might have to obtain clearance or other regulatory approvals prior to marketing a product containing new components. We may be unable to obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, which could cause our revenues to decline and our business to suffer. We also depend upon a limited number of outside unaffiliated suppliers for our radioisotopes. Our principal suppliers are Nordion International, Inc. and a company in Russia. We also utilize other commercial isotope manufacturers located in the United States and overseas. To date, we have been able to obtain the required radioisotopes for our products without any significant delays or interruptions. Currently, we rely exclusively upon Nordion International for our supply of the Palladium-103 isotope; if Nordion International ceases to supply isotopes in sufficient quantity to meet our needs, there may not be adequate alternative sources of supply. If we lose any of these suppliers (including any single-source supplier), we would be required to find and enter into supply arrangements with one or more replacement suppliers. Obtaining alternative sources of supply could involve significant delays and other costs and these supply sources may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. Any disruption of supplies could delay delivery of our products that use radioisotopes, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could result in lost or deferred sales. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may be unable to meet our growth and revenue needs. Our success is materially dependent on a limited number of key employees, and, in particular, the continued services of L. Michael Cutrer, our president and chief executive officer, and James W. Klingler, our chief financial officer. We carry key employee insurance for Mr. Cutrer in the amount of $2.5 million. Our future business and financial results could be adversely affected if the services of Messrs Cutrer or Klingler or other key employees cease to be available. To our knowledge, none of our key employees have any plans to retire or leave in the near future. Our future success and ability to grow our business will depend in part on the continued service of our skilled personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. Although some employees are bound by a limited non-competition agreement that they sign upon employment, few of our employees are bound by employment contracts, and it is difficult to find qualified personnel, particularly medical physicists and customer service personnel, who are willing to travel extensively. We compete for qualified personnel with medical equipment manufacturers, universities and research institutions. Because the competition for these personnel is intense, costs related to compensation may increase significantly. Even when we are able to hire a qualified medical physicist, engineer or other technical person, there is a significant training period of up to several months before that person is fully capable of performing the functions we need. This could limit our ability to expand our business. The medical device industry is characterized by competing intellectual property, and we could be sued for violating the intellectual property rights of others. The medical device industry is characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies’ products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of patent litigation actions is often uncertain. Our competitors could assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by United States or foreign patent rights held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there could be 32 applications now pending of which we are unaware, which could later result in issued patents that our products infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more of our products could inadvertently be infringing of which we are unaware. While we do not believe that any of our products, services or technologies infringe any valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of third-party intellectual property rights that relate to our products, services or technologies. As the number of competitors in the radiation oncology market grows, and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us going forward increases. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources if we have to assert our patent rights against others. An unfavorable outcome to any litigation could harm us. In addition, we may not be able to detect infringement or may lose competitive position in the market before we do so. To address patent infringement or other intellectual property claims, we may have to enter into license agreements and technology cross-licenses or agree to pay royalties at a substantial cost to us. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses. A valid claim against us and our failure to obtain a license for the technology at issue could prevent us from selling our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial results and future prospects. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights do not adequately cover the technologies we employ, or if such rights are declared to be invalid, other companies may take advantage of our technology ideas and more effectively compete directly against us, or we might be forced to discontinue selling certain products. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and enforce patent protections for our products and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We rely on U.S. and foreign patents to protect our intellectual property. We also rely significantly on trade secrets and know-how that we seek to protect. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by filing patent applications for new features and products we develop. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, independent contractors and corporate partners, and we seek to control access to our intellectual property and the distribution of our products, documentation and other proprietary information. We plan to continue these methods to protect our intellectual property and our products. These measures may afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, making the outcome uncertain. Competitors could also bring actions or counterclaims attempting to invalidate our patents. Even if we are successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be costly and could divert our management’s attention. In 1998 (prior to our acquisition of NOMOS Corporation), NOMOS became involved in a lawsuit, which NOMOS initiated, involving a NOMOS patent relating to the ultrasound localization techniques that is used in BAT. In January 2003, the district court entered judgment against NOMOS on its infringement claims. NOMOS appealed this judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In February 2004, the circuit court upheld the district court’s judgment and we filed a petition for rehearing, which was denied on March 11, 2004. We cannot predict what the adverse effect the result of this litigation will have on our future sales of related products. 33 Even if we are able to effectively enforce our existing proprietary rights to the fullest extent permitted by law, this would not protect us from competition. We do not have any patents on IMRT delivery or planning generally, and we have competitors that currently market and sell IMRT planning and delivery products including inverse planning systems similar to our CORVUS product. In addition, our competitors could design around our patents or develop products that provide comparable or superior outcomes without infringing on our patents or other proprietary rights. The confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. In 2006, we licensed intellectual property which is currently the subject of litigation brought by WorldWide Medical Technologies in U.S. District Court against both the Company as well as their former employee, Richard Terwilliger, who is currently our Vice-President of New Product Development. This intellectual property relates to the Company’s brachytherapy business, specifically, certain needle-loading and stranding technologies. While the Company does not believe that it has any liability in this matter, and is vigorously defending itself in the litigation, we cannot predict what effect an adverse result from this litigation would have on our future sales of the products at issue. We use radioactive materials which are subject to stringent regulation and which may subject us to liability if accidents occur. We manufacture and process radioactive materials which are subject to stringent regulation. We operate under licenses issued by the California Department of Health which are renewable every eight years. We received a renewal of our license for our North Hollywood facility in 1998 and we were issued a license for our Chatsworth facility in March 1999. California is one of the “Agreement States,” which are so named because the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or NRC, has granted such states regulatory authority over radioactive materials, provided such states have regulatory standards meeting or exceeding the standards imposed by the NRC. Most users of our products must obtain licenses issued by the state in which they reside (if they are Agreement States) or the NRC. Use licenses are also required by some of the foreign jurisdictions in which we may seek to market our products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these radioactive materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. We believe we carry reasonably adequate insurance to cover us in the event of any damages resulting from the use of hazardous materials. Healthcare reforms, changes in health-care policies and unfavorable changes to third-party reimbursements for use of our products, could cause declines in the revenues of our products. Hospitals and freestanding clinics may be less likely to purchase our products if they cannot be assured of receiving favorable reimbursement for treatments using our products from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans. Generally speaking, Medicare pays hospitals, freestanding clinics and physicians a fixed amount for services using our products, regardless of the costs incurred by those providers in furnishing the services. Such providers may perceive the set reimbursement amounts as inadequate to compensate for the costs incurred and thus may be reluctant to furnish the services for which our products are designed. Moreover, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical procedures or limiting or prohibiting reimbursement for some services or devices, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels for our products. There is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we can provide no assurance that procedures using our products will qualify for reimbursement from third-party payors or that reimbursement rates will not be reduced or eliminated. 34 For example, we have previously been informed that some private third-party payors regard IMRT as investigational or experimental and do not provide reimbursement for these services at this time. A reduction in or elimination of third-party payor reimbursement for treatments using our products would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Our results from operations arising out of our relationship with Prostate Centers of America (PCA) has been negatively impacted by administrative difficulties in reimbursement of our brachytherapy products in ambulatory surgical centers, despite recent changes in reimbursement for brachytherapy products in non-hospital settings. Our ability to receive payment for purchases already made by customers of PCA’s has been significantly impacted by these administrative difficulties, and we cannot be sure that full payment, or any payment, will be made on these past sales of brachytherapy seeds. Furthermore, any federal and state efforts to reform government and private healthcare insurance programs could significantly affect the purchase of healthcare services and products in general and demand for our products in particular. We are unable to predict whether potential reforms will be enacted, whether other healthcare legislation or regulation affecting the business may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The federal Medicare program currently reimburses hospitals and freestanding clinics for both IMRT/IGRT and brachytherapy treatments. Medicare reimbursement amounts typically are reviewed and adjusted at least annually. Medicare reimbursement policies are reviewed and revised on an ad hoc basis. Adjustments could be made to these reimbursement policies or amounts, which could result in reduced or no reimbursement for IMRT/IGRT and brachytherapy services. Changes in Medicare reimbursement policies or amounts affecting hospitals and freestanding clinics could negatively affect market demand for our products. With respect to brachytherapy in particular, Medicare reimbursement amounts for seeding are currently significantly less than for radical prostatectomy, or RP. Although seeding generally requires less physician time than RP, lower reimbursement amounts, when combined with physician familiarity with RP, may create disincentives for urologists to perform seeding. Private third-party payors often adopt Medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts. As such, Medicare reimbursement policy and payment amount changes concerning our products also could be extended to private third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts and could affect demand for our products in those markets as well. Acceptance of our products in foreign markets could be affected by the availability of adequate reimbursement or funding, as the case may be, within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement, funding and healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We can provide no assurance that third-party reimbursement will be made available with respect to treatments using our products under any foreign reimbursement system. Problems with any of these reimbursement systems that adversely affect demand for our products could cause our revenues from our products to decline and our business to suffer. Also, we, our distributors and healthcare providers performing radiation therapy procedures are subject to state and federal fraud and abuse laws prohibiting kickbacks and, in the case of physicians, patient self-referrals. We may be subjected to civil and criminal penalties if we or our agents violate any of these prohibitions. 35 We are subject to extensive government regulation applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products. Complying with the Food And Drug Administration and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies is an expensive and time-consuming process, whose outcome can be difficult to predict. If we fail or are delayed in obtaining regulatory approvals or fail to comply with applicable regulations, we may be unable to market and distribute our products or may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. We and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation of the manufacture and distribution of our products, both in the United States and in foreign countries. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and changes to or failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or adoption of new laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business. In the United States, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the State of California, State of Pennsylvania and the State of Washington to ensure such devices are safe and effective. Such regulations, which include the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act, and regulations promulgated by the FDA, govern the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, possession, marketing, disposal, clinical investigations involving humans, sale and marketing of medical devices, post-market surveillance, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation producing devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. State regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. Our brachytherapy seeds and IMRT/IGRT products constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. Future products in any of our business segments may constitute medical devices and be subject to regulation as such. These laws require that manufacturers adhere to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and effective. Under the FDC Act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with requirements applicable to manufacturing practices. In the United States, medical devices are classified into three different categories, over which the FDA applies increasing levels of regulation: Class I, Class II, and Class III. The FDA has classified all of our IMRT/IGRT products to date as Class II devices. Our brachytherapy products have been classified as Class I devices. Before a new device can be introduced into the United States market, the manufacturer must obtain FDA clearance or approval through either a 510(k) premarket notification or a premarket approval, unless the product is otherwise exempt from the requirements. Class I devices are statutorily exempt from the 510(k) process, unless the device is intended for a use which is of substantial importance in preventing impairment of human health or it presents a potential unreasonable risk of illness or injury. A 510(k) premarket notification clearance will typically be granted for a device that is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed Class I or Class II medical device or a Class III medical device for which the FDA has not yet required submission of a premarket approval. A 510(k) premarket notification must contain information supporting the claim of substantial equivalence, which may include laboratory results or the results of clinical studies. Following submission of a 510(k) premarket notification, a company may not market the device for clinical use until the FDA finds the product is substantially equivalent for a specific or general intended use. FDA clearance generally takes from four to twelve months, but it may take longer, and there is no assurance that the FDA will ultimately grant a clearance. The FDA may determine that a device is not substantially equivalent and require submission and approval of a premarket approval or require further information before it is able to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. Most of the products that we are currently marketing have received clearances from the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process. For any devices already cleared through the 510(k) process, modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a major 36 change in intended use require a new 510(k) submission and a separate FDA determination of substantial equivalence. We have made minor modifications to our products and, using the guidelines established by the FDA, have determined that these modifications do not require us to file new 510(k) submissions. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, we may not be able to sell one or more of our products until the FDA has cleared new 510(k) submissions for these modifications, and there is no assurance that the FDA will ultimately grant a clearance. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain premarket approval process under Section 515 of the FDC. The approval process under Section 515 generally takes from one to three years, but in many cases can take even longer, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Under the premarket approval process, an applicant must generally conduct at least one clinical investigation and submit extensive supporting data and clinical information establishing the safety and effectiveness of the device, as well as extensive manufacturing information. Clinical investigations themselves are typically lengthy and expensive, closely regulated and frequently require prior FDA clearance. Even if clinical investigations are conducted, there is no assurance that they will support the claims for the product. If the FDA requires us to submit a new premarket notification under Section 510(k) for modifications to our existing products, or if the FDA requires us to go through the lengthier, more rigorous Section 515 premarket approval process, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or cancelled, which could cause our revenues to be below expectations. In addition to FDA-required market clearances and approvals, our manufacturing operations are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which addresses the quality program requirements, such as a company’s management responsibility for the company’s quality systems, and good manufacturing practices, product design, controls, methods, facilities and quality assurance controls used in manufacturing, assembly, packing, storing and installing medical devices. Compliance with the QSR is necessary to receive FDA clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for us to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings. There can be no assurance that we will not incur significant costs to comply with these regulations in the future or that the regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our compliance and the compliance by some of our suppliers with applicable regulatory requirements is and will continue to be monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. The FDA makes announced and unannounced inspections to determine compliance with the QSR’s and may issue us 483 reports listing instances where we have failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures or Warning Letters which, if not adequately responded to, could lead to enforcement actions against us, including fines, the total shutdown of our production facilities and criminal prosecution. If we or any of our suppliers fail to comply with FDA requirements, the FDA can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: · fines, injunctions and civil penalties; · the recall or seizure of our products; · the imposition of operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · the refusal of our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products; · the withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals already granted; and · criminal prosecution. Similar consequences could arise from our failure, or the failure by any of our suppliers, to comply with applicable foreign laws and regulations. Foreign regulatory requirements vary by country. In general, our products are regulated outside the United States as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the FDA. However, the time and cost required to obtain regulatory approvals from foreign 37 countries could be longer than that required for FDA clearance and the requirements for licensing a product in another country may differ significantly from the FDA requirements. We rely, in part, on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. We may not be able to obtain these approvals without incurring significant expenses or at all, and the failure to obtain these approvals would prevent us from selling our products in the applicable countries. This could limit our sales and growth. Doctors and hospitals may not adopt our products and technologies at levels sufficient to sustain our business or to achieve our desired growth rate. Intensity modulated radiation therapy and image-guided radiation therapy are both relatively new technologies and, to date, we have attained only limited penetration of the total potential worldwide market. Our future growth and success depends upon creating broad awareness and acceptance of IMRT/IGRT generally and our products in particular by doctors, hospitals and freestanding clinics, as well as patients. This will require substantial marketing and educational efforts, which will be costly and may not be successful. The target customers for our IMRT/IGRT products may not adopt these technologies or may adopt them at a rate that is slower than desired. In addition, as described above, potential customers who decide to utilize IMRT/IGRT may choose to purchase competitors’ products. Important factors that will affect our ability to attain broad market acceptance of our IMRT/IGRT products include: · doctor and patient awareness and acceptance of IMRT/IGRT and our products; · the real or perceived effectiveness and safety of IMRT/IGRT and our products; · the relationship between the cost of our products and the real or perceived medical benefits of IMRT/IGRT and our products; · the relationship between the cost of our products and the financial benefits to our customers of using our products, which will be greatly affected by the coverage of, and reimbursement for, IMRT/IGRT treatment and ultrasound guidance by governmental and private third-party payors; and · market perception of our ability to continue to grow our business and develop enhanced IMRT/IGRT products. Failure of our products to gain broad market acceptance could cause our revenues to decline and our business to suffer. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to penetrate foreign markets, particularly in Asia and Europe. However, we may encounter difficulties in gaining acceptance of our products in foreign markets, where we have limited experience marketing, servicing and distributing our products, and where we will be subject to additional regulatory burdens and other risks. Our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to establish, grow and ultimately maintain our product sales in foreign markets, particularly in Asia and Europe. However, we have limited experience in marketing, servicing and distributing our products in other countries. In 2005, less than 5% of our product revenues and less than 5% of our total revenues were derived from sales to customers outside the United States and Canada. Our foreign operations subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, including: · our customers’ ability to obtain reimbursement for procedures using our products in foreign markets; · the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign regulatory requirements; 38 · language barriers and other difficulties in providing long-range customer support and service; · longer accounts receivable collection times; · significant currency fluctuations, which could cause our distributors to reduce the number of products they purchase from us because the cost of our products to them could fluctuate relative to the price they can charge their customers; · reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; and · the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute. Our foreign sales of our products could also be adversely affected by export license requirements, the imposition of governmental controls, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, any violation of which could create a substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue transactions that may cause us to experience significant charges to earnings that may adversely affect our stock price and financial condition. We regularly review potential transactions related to technologies, product candidates or product rights and businesses complementary to our business. Such transactions could include mergers, acquisitions, strategic alliances, licensing agreements or co-promotion agreements. Our acquisition of Theseus Imaging Corporation in October 2000 and the acquisition of NOMOS, in May 2004, are examples of such transactions. In the future, if we have sufficient available capital, we may choose to enter into such transactions. We may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our business and the process could be expensive and time consuming and may strain our resources. Depending upon the nature of any transaction, we may experience a charge to earnings which could be material. Operating results for a particular period may fluctuate and are difficult to predict. The results of operations for any fiscal quarter or fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of a number of factors. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict. Such factors include the following: · Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than experienced in previous periods and, in particular periods, may decline; · Our brachytherapy product lines may experience some variability in revenue due to seasonality. This is primarily due to three major holidays occurring in our first fiscal quarter and the apparent reduction in the number of procedures performed during summer months, which could affect our third fiscal quarter results; · Estimates with respect to the useful life and ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including goodwill and purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions; · As a result of our growth in past periods, our fixed costs have increased. With increased levels of spending and the impact of long-term commitments, we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes; 39 · Acquisitions that result in in-process research and development expenses may be charged fully in an individual quarter; · Sales of our IMRT/IGRT products are typically heavier in the final month of a fiscal quarter, leading to a disproportionately high use of cash in the first two months of a quarter; · Changes or anticipated change in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products; · Timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us and by our competitors; · The possibility that unexpected levels of cancellations of orders or backlog may affect certain assumptions upon which we base our forecasts and predictions of future performance; · Changes in the general economic conditions in the regions in which we do business; · Unfavorable outcome of any litigation; and · Accounting adjustments such as those relating to reserves for product recalls, stock option expensing as required under SFAS No. 123R and changes in interpretation of accounting pronouncements. Being a public company significantly increases our administrative costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and listing requirements subsequently adopted by NASDAQ in response to Sarbanes-Oxley, have required changes in corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee practices of public companies. These rules, regulations, and requirements have significantly increased our legal, financial, compliance and administrative costs, and have made certain other activities more time consuming and costly, as well as requiring substantial time and attention of our senior management. The Company expects its continued compliance with these and future rules and regulations to continue to require significant resources. These new rules and regulations also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members for our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. Our publicly-filed SEC reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. 40 The liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from The Nasdaq National Market. In the event that we are unable maintain compliance with all relevant Nasdaq Listing Standards, our securities may be subject to delisting from the Nasdaq National Market. If such delisting occurs, the market price and market liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected. Alternatively, if faced with such delisting, we may submit an application to transfer the listing of our common stock to the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. The Nasdaq SmallCap Market also has a $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. If our common stock is delisted by Nasdaq, our common stock may be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board maintained by Nasdaq, the American Stock Exchange, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets where an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to a rule promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect the liquidity of our common stock. Delisting from Nasdaq would make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price. It would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. 