Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the risks described below should be carefully considered before deciding to invest in shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. These are risks and uncertainties that management believes are most likely to be material and therefore are most important for an investor to consider. The Company’s business operations and results may also be adversely affected by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to it, or which it currently deems immaterial, or which are similar to those faced by other companies in its industry or business in general. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock could decline. The Company Faces Substantial Competition. The Better Beer category within the United States beer market is highly competitive, due to the increasing number of craft brewers with similar pricing and target drinkers and gains in market share achieved by domestic specialty beers and imported beers, a number of which are now promoted or imported by the two largest domestic brewing companies, AB InBev and MillerCoors. The Company faces strong competition from these two brewers as they introduce new domestic specialty brands to many markets and expand their efforts behind existing brands. Imported beers, such as Corona® and Heineken®, also continue to compete aggressively in the United States beer market. The Company anticipates competition among domestic craft brewers will remain strong, as craft brewers experienced their tenth successive year of growth in 2014 and there were many new startups. The Company estimates there are now approximately 5,200 craft breweries in operation or in the planning stages up from approximately 420 operating craft breweries in 2006. Also, existing craft breweries are building more capacity, expanding geographically, adding more SKUs and styles as Distributors and retailers are promoting and making more shelf space available for more craft beer brands. The continued growth in the sales 10 Table of Contents of craft-brewed domestic beers and in imported beers is expected to increase the competition in the Better Beer category within the United States beer market and, as a result, prices and market share of the Company’s products may fluctuate and possibly decline. The Company’s products, including its Twisted Tea and Angry Orchard products, also compete generally with other alcoholic beverages. The Company competes with other beer and beverage companies not only for drinker acceptance and loyalty, but also for shelf, cold box and tap space in retail establishments and for marketing focus by the Company’s Distributors and their customers, all of which also distribute and sell other beers and alcoholic beverage products. Many of the Company’s competitors, including AB InBev, MillerCoors, Heineken and Constellation Brands, have substantially greater financial resources, marketing strength and distribution networks than the Company. Moreover, the introduction of new products by competitors that compete directly with the Company’s products or that diminish the importance of the Company’s products to retailers or Distributors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. Further, the beer industry has seen continued consolidation among brewers in order to take advantage of cost savings opportunities for supplies, distribution and operations. Illustrative of this consolidation are the domestic joint venture between SABMiller and Molson Coors and the acquisition of Anheuser Busch by InBev, both of which occurred in 2008, the acquisition of FEMSA Cerveza by Heineken in 2010, and the acquisition of Grupo Modelo by AB InBev in 2013. Due to the increased leverage that these combined operations will have, the costs to the Company of competing could increase and the availability of contract brewing capacity could be reduced. The potential also exists for these large competitors to increase their influence with their Distributors, making it difficult for smaller brewers to maintain their market presence or enter new markets. These potential increases in the number and availability of competing brands, the costs to compete, reductions in contract brewing capacity and decreases in distribution support and opportunities may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. There Is No Assurance of Continued Growth. Conversely, the Company May Not Be Able to Manage Demand for Its Products. The Company’s future growth may be limited both by its ability to continue to increase its market share in domestic and international markets, including those markets that may be dominated by one or more regional or local craft breweries, and by the increasing number of competitors in the craft beer and the Better Beer markets. The development of new products by the Company may lead to reduced sales in the Company’s other products, including its flagship Samuel Adams Boston Lager. The Company’s future growth may also be limited by its ability to meet production goals and/or targets at the Company’s owned breweries, its ability to enter into new brewing contracts with third party-owned breweries on commercially acceptable terms, disruption or operating performance issues at the Company’s owned breweries or limits on the availability of suitable production capacity at third party-owned breweries, and its ability to obtain sufficient quantities of certain ingredients and packaging materials, such as hops, malt, cider ingredients and bottles, from suppliers. The Company has Significantly Increased its Product Offerings and Distribution Footprint, which Increases Complexity and Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business. The Company has significantly increased the number of its commercially available beers, FMBs and hard ciders that it produces. Since 2010, the Company has introduced many new beers under the Samuel Adams brand name. During 2014, the Company significantly increased distribution for both the Twisted Tea and Angry Orchard brand families, as well as adding more styles and packages. Alchemy & Science currently has four brands, including the Angel City Brewery brand and the Concrete Beach brand, which include small breweries and beer halls where beer is sold and consumed on premise. In addition, Alchemy & Science has plans to build a small brewery and beer hall in Brooklyn, New York for its Coney Island brand during 2015. These additional 11 Table of Contents brands and breweries, along with the increases in demand for existing brands, have added to the complexity of the Company’s beer and hard cider development process, as well as its brewing, packaging, marketing and selling processes. The Company does not have significant experience with managing this number of brands and products and has limited experience with integrating acquired brands or operating beer halls. There can be no assurance that the Company will effectively manage such increased complexity, without experiencing operating inefficiencies or control deficiencies. Such inefficiencies or deficiencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. Unexpected Events at Company-Owned Breweries, Reduced Availability of Breweries Owned by Others, Increased Complexity of the Company’s Business, or the Expansion Costs of the Company-Owned Breweries Could Have A Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Operations or Financial Results. Prior to 2008, the Company pursued a production strategy that combined the capacity at its Cincinnati Brewery, which was acquired in 1997 with significant production arrangements at breweries owned by third parties. The brewing services arrangements with breweries owned by others allowed the Company to utilize their excess capacity, providing the Company flexibility, as well as cost advantages over its competitors, while maintaining full control over the brewing process for its beers. The Company purchased the Pennsylvania Brewery in June 2008. As a result of that acquisition and subsequent expansion of the Pennsylvania Brewery’s capacity and efficiency, the volume of core brands brewed at Company-owned breweries increased and currently over 95% of the Company’s volume is brewed and packaged at breweries that it owns. In 2014, the Company brewed its flagship beer, Samuel Adams Boston Lager, at each of its three Samuel Adams breweries, but at any particular time it may rely on only one brewery for its products other than Samuel Adams Boston Lager. The Company expects to continue to brew most all of its core brands volume in 2015 at its Company-owned breweries. This reliance on its own breweries exposes the Company to capacity constraints, as these breweries are operating at or close to current capacity in peak months. Nevertheless, management believes that it has alternatives available to it, in the event that production at any of its brewing locations is interrupted, although as volumes at the Pennsylvania Brewery increases, severe interruptions there would be problematic. In addition, the Company may not be able to maintain its current economics if interruptions were to occur, and could face significant delays in starting replacement brewing locations. Potential interruptions at breweries include labor issues, governmental action, quality issues, contractual disputes, machinery failures, operational shut downs or natural or unavoidable catastrophe. The combination of the recent growth in the Company’s business and product complexity, its increased hiring of new employees, and greater reliance on its own breweries, continues to heighten the challenges presented by the Company’s operations. Beginning in the second half of 2013, the Company had product shortages and service issues and the Company’s supply chain struggled under the increased volume and experienced increased operational and freight costs, as it reacted. In 2013 and 2014, the Company significantly increased its packaging capabilities and tank capacity to address these challenges. There can be no assurance that the Company will effectively manage such increasing complexity without experiencing future planning failures, operating inefficiencies, insufficient employee training, control deficiencies or other issues that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. The growth of the Company, changes in operating procedures and increased complexity have required significant capital investment. The Company to date has not seen operating cost leverage from these increased volumes and there is no guarantee that it will. The Company continues to avail itself of capacity at third-party breweries. During 2014, the Company brewed and/or packaged certain products under service contracts at facilities located in Latrobe, Pennsylvania, LaCrosse, Wisconsin, and Clifton Park, New York. In selecting third party breweries for brewing services arrangements, the Company carefully weighs brewery’s (i) capability of utilizing traditional brewing, fermenting and finishing methods and (ii) first rate quality control capabilities throughout the production process. To the extent that the Company needs to avail itself of third-party brewing services arrangement, it exposes itself to higher than planned costs of operating under such contract arrangements than would apply at the Company-owned breweries 12 Table of Contents or an unexpected decline in the brewing capacity available to it, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. The use of such third party facilities also creates higher logistical costs and uncertainty in the ability to deliver product to the Company’s customers efficiently and on time. As the brewing industry continues to consolidate and the Company has grown, the capacity and willingness of breweries owned by others where the Company could brew some of its beers, if necessary, has become a more significant concern and, thus, there is no guarantee that the Company’s brewing needs will be met. The Company continues to work with all of its contract brewers to attempt to minimize any potential disruption. Nevertheless, should an interruption occur, the Company could experience temporary shortfalls in production and/or increased production or distribution costs and be required to make significant capital investments to secure alternative capacity for certain brands and packages, the combination of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. A simultaneous interruption at several of the Company’s production locations or an unexpected interruption at one of the Company-owned breweries would likely cause significant disruption, increased costs and, potentially, lost sales. The Company Is Dependent on Its Distributors. In the United States, where approximately 96% of its beer is sold, the Company sells its beer to independent beer Distributors for distribution to retailers and, ultimately, to drinkers. Although the Company currently has arrangements with approximately 350 wholesale Distributors, sustained growth will require it to maintain such relationships and possibly enter into agreements with additional Distributors. Changes in control or ownership within the current distribution network could lead to less support of the Company’s products. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to maintain its current distribution network or secure additional Distributors on terms favorable to the Company. Contributing to distribution risk is the fact that the Company’s distribution agreements are generally terminable by the Distributor on relatively short notice. While these distribution agreements contain provisions giving the Company enforcement and termination rights, some state laws prohibit the Company from exercising these contractual rights. The Company’s ability to maintain its existing distribution arrangements may be adversely affected by the fact that many of its Distributors are reliant on one of the major beer producers for a large percentage of their revenue and, therefore, they may be influenced by such producers. If the Company’s existing distribution agreements are terminated, it may not be able to enter into new distribution agreements on substantially similar terms, which may result in an increase in the costs of distribution. The Company’s Freshest Beer Program Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Business and Operating Results In late 2010, the Company started the implementation of its Freshest Beer Program with domestic Distributors to reduce both the time and temperature the Company’s beers experience at Distributor warehouses before reaching the market. Historically, Distributors carry three to five weeks of packaged inventory (usually at ambient temperatures) and three to four weeks of draft inventory. The Company’s goal is to reduce this through better on-time service, forecasting, production planning and cooperation with the Distributors. At December 27, 2014, the Company had 121 Distributors participating in the program at various stages of inventory reduction. The Company has approximately 68% of its volume on the Freshest Beer Program and believes this could reach 72% to 78% by the end of 2015. The Company successfully reduced the inventories of participating Distributors by approximately two weeks, resulting in fresher beer being delivered to retail. The Freshest Beer Program has resulted in lower shipments of approximately 241,000, 212,000 and 103,000 case equivalents in 2012, 2013 and 2014 respectively as measured at the end of the year by evaluating the year on year inventory reduction from the inventory levels that might otherwise have been expected. The ordering process has changed significantly for Distributors that participate in the Freshest Beer Program and has resulted in a shorter period between order placement and shipment and posed much greater challenges for forecasting and production planning. Also, 13 Table of Contents changes to the Distributor ordering process has increased the complexity of the Company’s revenue recognition for shipments to Distributors that participate in the Freshest Beer Program. It is possible that the Freshest Beer Program may not ultimately be successful; that its costs of implementation may exceed the value realized; or that the outcome of such inventory reductions may prove detrimental to the Company’s business trends and ability to execute at retail. The Company may encounter unexpected problems with forecasting, accounting, production and Distributor cooperation. These issues may have and in the future could lead to shortages and out of stocks of the Company’s products at the Distributor and retailer levels, result in increased costs, negatively impact Distributor relations, and/or delay the Company’s implementation of this program. Because the Company is still in the process of rolling out the Freshest Beer Program, there necessarily remain implementation and execution issues to be addressed. Additionally, the Company has recently experienced growth rates significantly higher than planned and such growth places much greater stress on the Company’s supply chain given the lower inventories at Distributors. As a result, the Company currently cannot predict the long-term success of this program, the scope of its further implementation or the full extent of the costs or business impacts associated with the program that might be incurred. Although the Company currently believes the program will, in the long term, be beneficial to its business, there can be no assurances that this result will be achieved or, if achieved, to what extent. The Company also fills orders from those of its Distributors who may choose independently to build their inventories or run their inventories down. Such a change in Distributor inventories is unpredictable and can lead to fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly or annual results. The Company is Dependent on Key Suppliers, Including Foreign Sources; Its Dependence on Foreign Sources Creates Foreign Currency Exposure for the Company; The Company’s Use of Natural Ingredients Creates Weather and Crop Reliability and Excess Inventory Exposure for the Company. The Company purchases a substantial portion of the raw materials used in the brewing of its products, including its malt, hops, barley and other ingredients, from a limited number of foreign and domestic suppliers. The Company purchased most of the malt used in the production of its beer from one major supplier during 2014. Nevertheless, the Company believes that there are other malt vendors available that are capable of supplying part of its needs. The Company is exposed to the quality of the barley crop each year, and significant failure of a crop would adversely affect the Company’s costs. The 2014 crop was well below norms in quality and quantity. Further years of poor crops could cause significant barley price increases and might create availability risks. The Company predominantly uses Noble hops for its Samuel Adams lagers. Noble hops are varieties from several specific growing areas recognized for superior taste and aroma properties and include Hallertau-Hallertauer, Tettnang-Tettnanger, Hersbruck-Hersbrucker and Spalt-Spalter from Germany and Saaz-Saazer from the Czech Republic. Noble hops are rare and more expensive than most other varieties of hops. Traditional English hops, namely, East Kent Goldings and English Fuggles, and/or United States hops are used in most of the Company’s ales. The demand for hops grown in the United States has grown due to the success and growth of craft brewers and the popularity of beer styles that include hops grown in the United States. Certain United States hops are in tight supply and prices have risen for both spot purchases and forward contract pricing, accordingly. The Company enters into purchase commitments with several hops dealers, based on the Company’s projected future volumes and brewing needs. The dealers then contract with farmers to meet the Company’s needs. However, the performance and availability of the hops, as with any agricultural product, may be materially adversely affected by factors such as adverse weather or pests. Further, the use of fertilizers and pesticides that do not conform to United States regulations, the imposition of export/import restrictions (such as increased tariffs and duties) and changes in currency exchange rates could result in increased prices. The Company attempts to maintain up to a two years supply of essential hop varieties on-hand in order to limit the risk of an unexpected reduction in supply. The Company stores its hops in multiple cold storage warehouses 14 Table of Contents to minimize the impact of a catastrophe at a single site. Hops and malt are agricultural products and therefore many outside factors, including weather conditions, farmers rotating out of hops or barley to other crops, government regulations and legislation affecting agriculture, could affect both price and supply. The Company uses special varieties of apples in its ciders that it believes are important for the ciders’ flavor profile. These apples are sourced primarily from European,United States and New Zealand suppliers and include bittersweet apples from France and New Zealand and culinary apples from Italy and Washington State. There is limited availability of these apples and many outside factors, including weather conditions, farmers rotating from apples to other crops, government regulations and legislation affecting agriculture, could affect both price and supply. In 2012, the Company experienced shortages of apples, primarily due to growth in excess of that planned, that impacted the timing of shipments of its hard ciders to Distributors. During 2013 and 2014, the Company did not experience any shortage of apples. The Company has entered into contracts to cover its expected needs for 2015 and expects to realize full delivery against these contracts. Except for the shortage of apples in 2012, the Company has not experienced material difficulties in obtaining timely delivery from its suppliers, although the Company has had to pay significantly above historical prices to secure supplies when inventory and supply have been tight. Growth rates higher than planned or the introduction of new products requiring special ingredients could create demand for ingredients greater than the Company can source. Although the Company believes that there are alternative sources available for some of the ingredients and packaging materials for its hard ciders, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to acquire such ingredients or packaging materials from substitute sources on a timely or cost effective basis in the event that current suppliers could not adequately fulfill orders. The loss or significant reduction in the capability of a supplier to support the Company’s requirements could, in the short-term, adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results, until alternative supply arrangements were secured. The Company’s contracts for certain hops and apples that are payable in Euros and Pounds Sterling, and therefore, the Company is subject to the risk that the Euro or Pound may fluctuate adversely against the U.S. dollar. The Company has, as a practice, not hedged this exposure, although this practice is regularly reviewed. Significant adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. The cost of hops has greatly increased in recent years due to exchange rate changes and the rising market price of hops. The continuation of these trends will impact the Company’s product cost and potentially the Company’s ability to meet the demand for its beers. The Company buys some other ingredients and capital equipment from foreign suppliers for which the Company also carries exposure to foreign exchange rate changes. The Company’s accounting policy for hops inventory and purchase commitments is to recognize a loss by establishing a reserve to the extent inventory levels and commitments exceed management’s expected future usage. The computation of the excess inventory requires management to make certain assumptions regarding future sales growth, product mix, cancellation costs and supply, among others. Actual results may differ materially from management’s estimates. The Company continues to manage inventory levels and purchase commitments in an effort to maximize utilization of hops on hand and hops under commitment. However, changes in management’s assumptions regarding future sales growth, product mix and hops market conditions could result in future material losses. An Increase in Packaging Costs Could Harm the Company’s Financial Results. The Company maintains competitive sources for the supply of certain packaging materials, such as shipping cases, six-pack carriers, glass and crowns. The Company enters into limited-term supply agreements with certain vendors in order to receive preferential pricing. In 2014, cans and labels were each supplied by single sources. Although the Company believes that alternative suppliers are available, the loss of any of the Company’s packaging materials suppliers could, in the short-term, adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position until alternative supply arrangements were secured. If packaging costs continue to 15 Table of Contents increase, there is no guarantee that such costs can be fully passed along to drinkers through increased prices. The Company has entered into long-term supply agreements for certain packaging materials that have shielded it from some cost increases. These contracts have varying lengths and terms and there is no guarantee that the economics of these contracts can be replicated at time of renewal. The Company’s inability to preserve the current economics on renewal could expose the Company to significant cost increases in future years. The Company initiates bottle deposits in some states and reuses glass bottles that are returned pursuant to certain state bottle recycling laws. The cost associated with reusing the glass varies. The Company believes that it benefits economically from cleaning and reusing these bottles, which result in a lower cost than purchasing new glass, and that it benefits the environment by the reduction in landfill usage, the reduction of usage of raw materials and the lower utility costs for reusing bottles versus producing new bottles. The economics of using recycled glass varies based on the cost of collection, sorting and handling, retailer, distributor and glass dealer behavior, the availability of equipment and service providers that will clean bottles for reuse, and may be adversely affected by changes in state regulation. There is no guarantee that the current economics of using returned glass will continue, or that the Company will continue its current used glass practices. An Increase in Energy Costs Could Harm the Company’s Financial Results. In the last five years, the Company has experienced significant variation in direct and indirect energy costs, and energy costs could rise unpredictably. Increased energy costs would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs, including increases in the cost of ingredients and supplies. The Company’s future operating expenses and margins could be dependent on its ability to manage the impact of such cost increases. If energy costs increase, there is no guarantee that such costs can be fully passed along to drinkers through increased prices. The Company’s Advertising and Promotional Investments May Affect the Company’s Financial Results but Not be Effective. As a growth-oriented company, the Company has made, and expects to continue to make, significant advertising and promotional expenditures to enhance its brands, even though these expenditures may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in a particular quarter or even for the full year, and may not result in increased sales. Variations in the levels of advertising and promotional expenditures have in the past caused, and are expected in the future to continue to cause, variability in the Company’s quarterly results of operations. While the Company attempts to invest only in effective advertising and promotional expenditures, it is difficult to correlate such investments with sales results, and there is no guarantee that the Company’s expenditures will be effective in building brand equity or growing long term sales. The Company’s Operations are Subject to Certain Operating Hazards and There Is No Guarantee That Problems Will Not Develop That Could Harm the Company’s Business. The Company’s operations are subject to certain hazards and liability risks faced by all brewers, such as potential contamination of ingredients or products by bacteria or other external agents that may be wrongfully or accidentally introduced into products or packaging. These could result in unexpected costs to the Company and, in the case of a costly product recall, potentially serious damage to the Company’s reputation for product quality, as well as claims for product liability. Changes in Tax, Environmental and Other Regulations or Failure to Comply with Existing Licensing, Trade or Other Regulations Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Financial Condition. The Company’s business is highly regulated by federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with Distributors, environmental impact of operations and other matters. These laws and 16 Table of Contents regulations are subject to frequent reevaluation, varying interpretations and political debate, and inquiries from governmental regulators charged with their enforcement. Failure to comply with current or changes to existing laws and regulations relating to the Company’s operations or in the payment of taxes or other fees could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of the Company’s licenses, permits or approvals, and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Public Attitudes and Drinker Tastes Could Harm the Company’s Business. Regulatory Changes in Response to Public Attitudes Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business. The alcoholic beverage industry has become the subject of considerable societal and political attention in recent years, due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including driving under the influence, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol, including alcoholism. As an outgrowth of these concerns, the possibility exists that advertising by beer producers could be restricted, that additional cautionary labeling or packaging requirements might be imposed, that further restrictions on the sale of alcohol might be imposed or that there may be renewed efforts to impose increased excise or other taxes on beer sold in the United States. The domestic beer industry, other than Better Beers, has experienced a slight decline in shipments over the last ten years. The Company believes that this slower growth is due to both declining alcohol consumption per person in the population and increased competition from wine and spirits companies. If beer consumption in general were to come into disfavor among domestic drinkers, or if the domestic beer industry were subjected to significant additional governmental regulations, the Company’s business could be materially adversely affected. Certain states are considering or have passed changes to regulations allowing the sale and distribution of marijuana. It is possible that such changes could adversely impact the demand for the Company’s products. There Is No Guarantee that the Company Will not Face Litigation that Could Harm the Company’s Business. While the Company has from time to time in the past been involved in material litigation, it is not currently a party to any pending or threatened litigation, the outcome of which would be expected to have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or the results of its operations. In general, while the Company believes it conducts its business appropriately in accordance with laws, regulations and industry guidelines, claims, whether or not meritorious, could be asserted against the Company that might adversely impact the Company’s results. See Item 3 — Legal Proceedings below. The Class B Shareholder Has Significant Influence over the Company The Company’s Class A Common Stock is not entitled to any voting rights except for the right as a class to (1) approve certain mergers, charter amendments and by-law amendments and (2) elect a minority of the directors of the Company. Although not a matter of right, the Class A stockholders also have been asked to vote on an advisory basis on executive compensation. Consequently, the election of a majority of the Company’s directors and all other matters requiring stockholder approval are currently decided by C. James Koch, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, as the holder of 100% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Class B Common Stock. As a result, Mr. Koch is able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the composition of the board of directors, approval of equity-based and other executive compensation and other significant corporate and governance matters, such as approval of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company and makes most material transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of Mr. Koch. In addition, Mr. Koch could transfer some shares of the Class B Common Stock to others, which could impact the nature of the control currently held by him as the sole holder of the Class B Common Stock. 17 Table of Contents Impact of Changes in Drinker Attitudes on Brand Equity and Inherent Risk of Reliance on the Company’s Founder in the Samuel Adams® Brand Communications. There is no guarantee that the brand equities that the Company has built in its brands will continue to appeal to drinkers. Changes in drinker attitudes or demands could adversely affect the strength of the brands and the revenue that is generated from that strength. It is possible that the Company could react to such changes and reposition its brands, but there is no certainty that the Company would be able to maintain volumes, pricing power and profitability. It is also possible that marketing messages or other actions taken by the Company could damage the brand equities as opposed to building them. If such damage should occur, it could have a negative effect on the financial condition of the Company. In addition to these inherent brand risks, the founder and Chairman of the Company, C. James Koch, is an integral part of the Company’s current Samuel Adams brand message and the Company relies on the positive public perception of its founder. The role of Mr. Koch as founder, brewer and leader of the Company is emphasized as part of the Company’s brand communication and has appeal to some drinkers. If Mr. Koch were not available to the Company to continue his active role, his absence could negatively affect the strength of the Company’s messaging and, accordingly, the Company’s growth prospects. If this were to occur, the Company might need to adapt its strategy for communicating its key messages regarding its traditional brewing processes, brewing heritage and quality. Any such change in the Company’s messaging strategy might have a detrimental impact on the future growth of the Company. The Company’s Operating Results and Cash Flow May Be Adversely Affected by Unfavorable Economic and Financial Market Conditions. Volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and economic conditions may directly or indirectly affect the Company’s performance and operating results in a variety of ways, including: (a) prices for energy and agricultural products may rise faster than current estimates, including increases resulting from currency fluctuations; (b) the Company’s key suppliers may not be able to fund their capital requirements, resulting in disruption in the supplies of the Company’s raw and packaging materials; (c) the credit risks of the Company’s Distributors may increase; (d) the impact of currency fluctuations on amounts owed to the Company by distributors that pay in foreign currencies; (e) the Company’s credit facility, or portion thereof, may become unavailable at a time when needed by the Company to meet critical needs; (f) overall beer consumption may decline; or (g) drinkers of the Company’s beers may change their purchase preferences and frequency, which might result in sales declines. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports that (1) the Company believes are material, (2) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of the Company’s 2014 fiscal year, and (3) remain unresolved. 