ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider the risks below carefully in addition to other information contained in this report before engaging in any transaction involving shares of our common stock. If any of these risks occur, they could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. We will need additional capital in the future to support the continued development of our product candidates and to fund continuing operations. Although, we expect that our cash requirements will decrease in future periods due to the discontinuation of development of TOCOSOL Paclitaxel, we will need additional capital in 2009 to support the continued development of SN2310, other product candidates and to fund continuing operations. We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund current operations into the third quarter of 2009. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors including: •our ability to obtain, and the timing of payments under, debt or equity financings; •timing and costs of preclinical development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals; •timing and cost of drug discovery and research and development; •entering into new collaborative or product license agreements for products in our pipeline; and •costs related to obtaining, defending and enforcing patents. Any future debt or equity financing, if available, may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants. We may merge with or acquire other companies or drug candidates, and our failure to receive the anticipated benefits in these transactions could harm our business. We are actively seeking strategic opportunities, which may include a merger or acquisition, among other things. The success of any merger or acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the business of the merged or acquired company with our business. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the operations of two companies include, among others: •consolidating research and development operations; •retaining key employees; •consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; •preserving the research and development and other important relationships of the companies; 9 •integrating and managing the technology of two companies; •using the merged or acquired company's liquid capital and other assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; •diverting management's attention from ongoing business concerns; and •coordinating geographically separate organizations. There can be no assurance that we will find any attractive strategic opportunities, or that if we find them, that we will be able to consummate a transaction on favorable terms, or at all. If we do enter into a transaction, there can be no assurance that we will receive all of the anticipated benefits of any transaction, or that any of the risks described above will not occur. Our failure to receive anticipated benefits of and our exposure to inherent risks in, any such transaction could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to satisfy NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements may result in our common stock being delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "SNUS." For continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market, we must maintain, among other requirements, stockholders' equity of at least $10.0 million, a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share and a market value of our public float of at least $5.0 million; or market capitalization of at least $50 million, a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share and a market value of our public float of at least $15.0 million. The closing price of our common stock, as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market as of March 3, 2008 was $0.45 per share. On November 5, 2007, we received notice from NASDAQ that we do not comply with NASDAQ's continued listing standards because the closing bid price of our common stock has been below the required minimum bid price of $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. We have until May 5, 2008 to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If we do not regain compliance by May 5, 2008, our common stock will be delisted if we do not appeal NASDAQ's determination to delist our common stock. Alternatively, we may apply for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market if we meet the initial listing standards for that market, in which case we would have an additional 180 days to regain compliance. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had stockholders' equity of approximately $31.9 million. In the event that we fail to satisfy any of the listing standards on a continuous basis, our common stock may be removed from listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock were delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market and we are unable to transfer to The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading of our common stock, if any, may be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called "pink sheets" or, if available, the OTC Bulletin Board. Consequently, broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell and/or make a market in our common stock. Additionally, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. As a result of a delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market, it may become more difficult for us to raise funds through the sale of our securities. The success of our potential products in research and preclinical studies does not guarantee that these results will be replicated in humans. Several of our drug development programs are currently in the research stage or in preclinical development. Our only product in clinical trials, SN2310, began Phase 1 clinical testing in September 2006 and is still in the early stages of clinical testing. Although our clinical development-stage drug candidate has shown favorable results in preclinical studies, these results may not be replicated in our clinical trials. Before we make any products from our research and development programs commercially available, we will need to conduct further research and development, including laboratory testing, animal studies, clinical studies, and obtain product approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities. These programs may not move beyond their current stages of development. Even if our research does advance, we will need to engage in certain additional preclinical development efforts to 10 determine whether a product is sufficiently safe and effective to enter clinical trials. Consequently, there is no assurance that the results in our research and preclinical studies are predictive of the results that we may see in our clinical trials, that they are predictive of whether any resulting products will be safe and effective in humans, or that the resulting products will be approved by regulatory authorities. Our success is dependent on the proper management of our current and future business operations, and the expenses associated with them given our limited resources. Our business strategy requires us to manage our operations to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our drug candidates. If we are unable to effectively manage our current operations given our limited resources, we may not be able to implement our business strategy and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our expenses through a reduction in our workforce and/or cancellation of research & development programs, which could adversely affect our operations. We may never realize revenue from product commercialization. Most of our attention and resources at this time are directed to the development of SN2310, a novel camptothecin derivative, as well as earlier stage oncology product candidates. Significant expenditures in additional research and development, clinical testing, regulatory, manufacturing, and sales and marketing activities will be necessary in order for us to gain marketing approval for our product candidates and subsequently commercialize them. There can be no assurance that product candidates under development or any future products will be safe and efficacious. If the product candidates under development are ultimately ineffective in treating cancer, do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals or do not obtain commercial acceptance, we will incur additional losses, our accumulated deficit will increase and our business will be materially adversely affected. Even if we are successful in developing our products, there is no assurance that such products will receive regulatory approval or that a commercially viable market will develop. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and anticipate. We set goals for and make public statements regarding the timing of certain accomplishments, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval dates and time of product launch, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may not be achieved, and the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, disagreements with future collaborative partners, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and manufacturing scale-up and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to launch any of our products in anticipated timeframes. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, our business will be materially adversely affected, and the price of our shares will decline. We have not yet commercialized any of our drug candidates; our ability to commercialize products is unproven. We have not yet commercialized any of our product candidates. Our commercialization of products is subject to several risks, including but not limited to: •the possibility that a product is toxic, ineffective or unreliable; •failure to obtain regulatory approval for the product; •difficulties in manufacturing the product on a large scale; 11 •difficulties in planning, coordinating and executing the commercial launch of the product; •difficulties in marketing, distribution or sale of the product; •the possibility of a failure to comply with laws and regulations related to the marketing, sale and reimbursement of the product; •competition from superior products; and •third-party patents that preclude us from marketing a product. Even if a product candidate is approved for commercial sale, significant strategic planning and resources will be necessary to effectively coordinate commercial launch of the product in the approved indication or indications, and to effectively market, distribute and sell the product for use in the approved indication or indications. We currently have limited marketing and no distribution capability. We have a history of operating losses which we expect will continue and we may never become profitable. We have experienced significant accumulated losses since our inception, and expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. These losses have resulted primarily from expenses associated with our research and development activities, including nonclinical and clinical trials, and general and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit totaled $124.8 million. We anticipate that our operating losses will continue as we further invest in research and development for our products. Our results of operations have varied and will continue to vary significantly and depend on, among other factors: •our ability to obtain and timing of payments under debt or equity financings; •outcome related to strategic activities currently being evaluated; •timing and costs of preclinical development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals; •drug discovery and research and development; •entering into new collaborative or product license agreements for products in our pipeline; and •costs related to obtaining, defending and enforcing patents. Governmental regulatory requirements are lengthy and expensive and failure to obtain necessary approvals will prevent us from commercializing a product. We are subject to uncertain governmental regulatory requirements and a lengthy approval process for our products prior to any commercial sales of our products. The development and commercial use of our products are regulated by the FDA, the EMEA, and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. The regulatory approval process for new products is lengthy and expensive. Before we can submit an application to the FDA and comparable international agencies, the product candidate must undergo extensive testing, including animal studies and human clinical trials that can take many years and require substantial expenditures. Data obtained from such testing may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval may cause additional costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals. Our product candidates are subject to significant uncertainty because they are in early stages of development and are subject to regulatory approval. The results of preclinical and clinical testing of our products are uncertain and regulatory approval of our products may take longer or be more expensive than anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict if or when any of our products under development will be commercialized. 12 If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified scientific and management personnel, we may be unable to become profitable. The loss of any key employees or the inability to recruit and retain qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development and qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel on acceptable terms, if at all, given the competition for experienced scientists and other personnel among numerous medical and pharmaceutical companies, universities and research institutions. We are highly dependent on our key executives, including Michael A. Martino, President & Chief Executive Officer and Alan Fuhrman, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, both of whom have Change in Control Agreements with the Company. Future U.S. or international legislative or administrative actions also could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. Even if regulatory approvals are obtained, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. A marketed product also is subject to continual FDA, EMEA and other regulatory agency review and regulation. Later discovery of previously unknown problems or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market, as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions. In addition, if marketing approval is obtained, the FDA, EMEA or other regulatory agency may require post-marketing testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product's efficacy and side effects. Results of these post-marketing programs may prevent or limit the further marketing of a product. The development of oncology related pharmaceutical products is extremely competitive, and if we fail to compete effectively, it would negatively impact our business. Competition in the development of pharmaceutical products is intense and expected to increase. We also believe that other medical and pharmaceutical companies will compete with us in the areas of research and development, acquisition of products and technology licenses, and the manufacturing and marketing of our products. Success of products in these fields will be based primarily on: •efficacy; •safety; •price; •breadth of approved indications; and •physician, healthcare payor and patient acceptance. Many of our competitors and potential competitors, including large pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology concerns and universities and other research institutions, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and have substantially greater experience in developing products, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing and manufacturing pharmaceutical products. Accordingly, these competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA approval for their products more rapidly than we do. In addition, other technologies or products may be developed that have an entirely different approach that would render our technology and products noncompetitive or obsolete. If we fail to compete effectively, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 We rely on third party suppliers and manufacturers to produce products that we develop and failure to retain such suppliers and manufacturers would adversely impact our ability to commercialize our products. We currently rely on third parties to supply the chemical ingredients necessary for our drug product candidates. The chemical ingredients for our products are manufactured by a limited number of vendors. The inability of these vendors to supply medical-grade materials to us could delay the manufacturing of, or cause us to cease the manufacturing of our products. We also rely on third parties to manufacture our products for research and development and clinical trials. Suppliers and manufacturers of our products must operate under cGMP regulations, as required by the FDA, and there are a limited number of contract manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations. cGMP are enumerated in FDA regulations and guidance documents. The facilities, procedures, and operations of our contract manufacturers must be determined to be adequate by the FDA before approval of product manufacturing for commercial use. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP, licensing specifications, and other FDA regulations. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA's review of NDAs, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on us. Our reliance on independent manufacturers involves a number of other risks, including the absence of adequate capacity, the unavailability of, or interruptions in, access to necessary manufacturing processes and reduced control over delivery schedules. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products in required volumes or have problems with commercial scale-up, we will have to identify acceptable alternative manufacturers. The use of a new manufacturer may cause significant interruptions in supply if the new manufacturer has difficulty manufacturing products to our specifications. Further, the introduction of a new manufacturer may increase the variation in the quality of our products. If we fail to secure adequate intellectual property protection or become involved in an intellectual property dispute, it could significantly harm our financial results and ability to compete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and defend patents and protect trade secrets. As of December 31, 2007, sixteen United States patents have been issued to Sonus. A composition of matter patent covering SN2310 issued in the United States in 2007, and national stage applications have been filed in key countries. Nine patents pertaining to our proprietary TOCOSOL technology have issued in the U.S., and TOCOSOL-related patents have also issued in Europe, Canada, Taiwan, Mexico, Korea, and India. Additional patent applications covering our research programs are pending in the U.S. and other countries. The patent position of medical and pharmaceutical companies is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that any claims which are included in pending or future patent applications will be issued, that any issued patents will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties, or that the existing or future patents of third parties will not have an adverse effect on our ability to commercialize our products. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that other companies will not independently develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around patents that may be issued to us. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights in court or administrative proceedings. Any litigation or administrative proceeding could result in substantial costs to us and distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing patents issued to competitors. There can be no assurance that patents belonging to competitors will not require us to alter our products or processes, pay licensing fees or cease development of our current or future products. Any 14 litigation regarding infringement could result in substantial costs to us and distraction of our management, and any adverse ruling in any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to license other technology that we may require at a reasonable cost or at all. Failure by us to obtain a license to any technology that we may require to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to determine the priority of inventions and the ultimate ownership of patents, we may participate in interference, reissue or re-examination proceedings conducted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or in proceedings before international agencies with respect to any of our existing patents or patent applications or any future patents or applications, any of which could result in loss of ownership of existing, issued patents, substantial costs to us and distraction of our management. If we encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, our trials could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. Clinical trials for our drug candidates require that we identify and enroll patients with the disorder or condition under investigation. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrollment is affected by factors including: •design of the protocol; •the size of the patient population; •eligibility criteria for the study in question; •perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; •Institutional Review Boards/Ethics Committees approvals to conduct the study; •availability of competing therapies; •efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials; •the success of our personnel in making the arrangements with potential clinical trial sites necessary for those sites to begin enrolling patients; •patient referral practices of physicians; •availability of clinical trial sites; and •other clinical trials seeking to enroll subjects with similar profiles. If we have difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing or planned clinical trials, either of which would have a negative effect on our business. Reimbursement procedures and future healthcare reform measures are uncertain and may adversely impact our ability to successfully sell pharmaceutical products. Our ability to successfully sell any pharmaceutical products will depend in part on the extent to which government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations will reimburse patients for the costs of future pharmaceutical products and related treatments. In the United States, government and other third-party payors have sought to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new pharmaceutical products approved for marketing by the FDA. In some cases, these payors may refuse to provide any coverage for uses of approved products to treat medical conditions even though the FDA has granted marketing approval. Healthcare reform may increase these cost containment efforts. We believe that managed care 15 organizations may seek to restrict the use of new products, delay authorization to use new products or limit coverage and the level of reimbursement for new products. Internationally, where national healthcare systems are prevalent, little if any funding may be available for new products, and cost containment and cost reduction efforts can be more pronounced than in the United States. If our products are not accepted by the medical community our business will suffer. Commercial sales of our proposed products will substantially depend upon the products' efficacy and on their acceptance by the medical community. Widespread acceptance of our products will require educating the medical community as to the benefits and reliability of the products. Our proposed products may not be accepted, and, even if accepted, we are unable to estimate the length of time it would take to gain such acceptance. The businesses in which we engage have a risk of product liability, and in the event of a successful suit against us, our business could be severely harmed. The testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products entails a risk of product liability claims by consumers and others. We currently maintain product liability insurance for our clinical trials with limits of $10 million per claim and in the aggregate, which we believe to be adequate for current non-commercial and clinical applications of our products. In the event of a successful suit against us, the lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Since we use hazardous materials in our business, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability not covered by insurance could exceed our resources. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of an investment in our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. The trading price for our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The price at which our common stock trades depends upon a number of factors, including our historical and anticipated operating results, preclinical and clinical trial results, market perception of the prospects for biotechnology companies as an industry sector and general market and economic conditions, some of which are beyond our control. Factors such as fluctuations in our financial and operating results, changes in government regulations affecting product approvals, reimbursement or other aspects of our or our competitors' businesses, FDA review of our product development activities, the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials, announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors, developments concerning key personnel and our intellectual property rights, significant collaborations or strategic alliances and publicity regarding actual or potential performance of products under development by us or our competitors could also cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may lower the market price of our common stock. Moreover, during periods of stock market price volatility, share prices of many biotechnology companies have often fluctuated in a manner not necessarily 16 related to the companies' operating performance. Also, biotechnology or pharmaceutical stocks may be volatile even during periods of relative market stability. Accordingly, our common stock may be subject to greater price volatility than the stock market as a whole. We may face fluctuations in operating results. Our operating results may rise or fall significantly from period to period as a result of many factors, including: •the amount of research and development we engage in; •outcome related to strategic activities currently being evaluated; •the number of product candidates we have, their progress in research, preclinical and clinical studies and the costs involved in manufacturing them; •our ability to enter into new strategic relationships; •our ability to maintain our facilities to support our operations; •the costs involved in prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; •the possibility that others may have or obtain patent rights that are superior to ours; •changes in government regulation; •changes in the price of our common stock or other variables used as a basis for valuing stock-based awards; •changes in accounting policies or principles; and •release of successful products into the market by our competitors. As a result, we may experience fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and continue to generate losses. Quarterly comparisons of our financial results may not necessarily be meaningful, and investors should not rely upon such results as an indication of our future performance. In addition, investors may react adversely if our reported operating results are less favorable than in a prior period or are less favorable than those anticipated by investors or the financial community, which may result in a drop in the market price of our common stock. The impact of the recall by Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals of certain batches of Taxol. In March 2007, Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals recalled certain batches of Taxol due to potential lack of sterility assurance. At the time of the recall, there had been no reports of non-sterile product and no stability failures had been detected. Among the recalled batches were those being used in the reference arm of the Phase 3 TOCOSOL Paclitaxel pivotal study. Based on the available information, Sonus has no reason to believe that the recalled batches had an adverse impact on patients treated with those batches in the Phase 3 study. The Company has returned all of the recalled material to its suppliers in accordance with the recall notice. On March 12, 2008, the Company received an initial refund from its suppliers of approximately $850,000 for returned material. While we believe that we will receive a refund for the remaining returned material, we are not able to reasonably estimate an amount of the refund at this time, and there can be no assurance that we will receive a full refund or that it will be received on a timely basis. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 