ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our common shares. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operation and future prospects will likely be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common shares could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. If we fail to obtain additional capital through licensing of our product candidates or through financing, we may be unable to complete or continue the development and commercialization of OGX-011 and our other product candidates, or continue our research and development programs. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to: • continue and complete the clinical development of OGX-011, including initiation of our planned Phase 3 registration trials, and development of our other product candidates; • develop, license or acquire additional product candidates; • launch and commercialize any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval; and • continue our research and development programs. We will need additional funding to support these planned activities. We may obtain additional funding through executing a partnership or collaboration agreement with a third party that has sufficient resources to fund the development of our product candidates or the licensing or sale of certain of our product candidates, or through private or public offerings of our equity securities or debt financings. Many factors will affect our ability to develop our product candidates as anticipated. We may be subject to unanticipated costs or delays that would accelerate our need for additional capital or increase the costs of individual clinical trials. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development and/or commercialization of one or more of our product candidates. We also may be required to: seek collaborators for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; and relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funding on terms favorable to us, or at all. In the event that such steps are not sufficient, or we believe that they will not be sufficient, we may be required to discontinue our operations. The recent volatility in the financial markets could adversely affect us or our partners or suppliers. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States and abroad have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Among other risks we face, the current tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future, including our ability to fund our planned phase 3 clinical trials of OGX-011 in patients with castrate resistant prostate cancer and to fund our other product candidates. In addition, current economic conditions could harm the liquidity or financial position of our partners or suppliers, which could, in turn, cause such parties to fail to meet their contractual or other obligations to us. 24 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history, have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have never had any products available for commercial sale and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. We are not profitable and have incurred losses in each year since our inception. We have never had any products available for commercial sale and we have not generated any revenue from product sales. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of products in the foreseeable future. We have not yet submitted any products for approval by regulatory authorities. We continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase as we continue our research activities and conduct development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, our product candidates, and prepare for and begin to commercialize any approved products. If our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. We are highly dependent on the success of our lead product candidate, OGX-011, and we cannot give any assurance that OGX-011 or any of our other product candidates will receive regulatory approval. OGX-011 has been evaluated in five phase 2 clinical trials, and preliminary results for these trials were previously disclosed. The final results ultimately may vary from such preliminary results. If any or all of these clinical trials generate safety concerns or lack of efficacy, or competitive products developed by third parties show significant benefit in the cancer indications in which we are developing our product candidates, any planned supportive or primary registration trials may be delayed, altered or not initiated and OGX-011 may never receive regulatory approval. In order to market OGX-011, we must, among other things, conduct additional clinical trials, including phase 3 or registration clinical trials, to demonstrate safety and efficacy. We have not initiated any registration clinical trials with any of our product candidates. OGX-427 and SN2310 are currently being evaluated in humans, though we have very limited safety data and have not yet established efficacy in humans. We have completed enrollment in the phase 1 clinical trial of SN2310 and the dose limiting toxicity that defined a maximum tolerated dose in this heavily pretreated patient population, as expected, was significant neutropenia. Additional clinical trials will be required with SN2310 to establish the safety and efficacy. Neither OGX-225 nor CSP-9222 have yet been tested in humans. Our pre-clinical testing of these product candidates may not be successful and we may be unable to initiate clinical evaluation of them. Our clinical development programs for our product candidates may not receive regulatory approval either if such product candidates fail to demonstrate that they are safe and effective in clinical trials and consequently fail to obtain necessary approvals from the FDA, or similar non-U.S. regulatory agencies, or if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance these product candidates through the clinical trial process. Any failure to obtain regulatory approval of OGX-011 or our other product candidates would have a material and adverse impact on our business. Clinical trials may not demonstrate a clinical benefit of our product candidates. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that later-stage or large-scale clinical trials will succeed. We will be required to demonstrate with substantial evidence through well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. Success in early clinical trials does not mean that future clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later- stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. Even after the completion of phase 3 clinical trials, the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may disagree with our clinical trial design and our interpretation of data, and may require us to conduct additional clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of our product candidates. 25 Table of Contents Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time, including by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, the Institutional Review Board (“IRB”) overseeing the clinical trial at issue, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site, or by us. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could materially harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates. We do not know whether any of our future clinical trials for OGX-011, OGX-427, SN2310, or pre-clinical studies or clinical trials for our other product candidates, will proceed or be completed on schedule, or at all. The completion or commencement of our future clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delay or failure to obtain required future additional funding through private or public offerings of our equity securities, debt financings, or executing a licensing, partnership or collaboration agreement with a third party for any of our product candidates; • limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with the particular types of cancer required for enrollment in our clinical trials; • limited number of, and competition for, suitable sites to conduct our clinical trials; • introduction of new product candidates to the market in therapeutic areas similar to those which we are developing our product candidates. • concurrent evaluation of new investigational product candidates in therapeutic areas similar to those which we are developing our product candidates. • delay or failure to obtain the FDA’s or non-U.S. regulatory agencies’ approval or agreement to commence a clinical trial, including our phase 3 or registration clinical trials under a Special Protocol Assessment; • delay or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of the product candidate for its clinical trials; • delay or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites or investigators; and • delay or failure to obtain the approval of the IRB to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. The completion of our current clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delay or failure to obtain required future additional funding through private or public offerings of our equity securities, debt financings, or executing a licensing, partnership or collaboration agreement with a third party for any of our product candidates; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; 26 Table of Contents • failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy evidenced during clinical trials; • termination of its clinical trials by one or more clinical trial sites; • inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow its clinical trial protocols; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and • introduction of competitive products that may impede its ability to retain patients in its clinical trials. Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, the IRB overseeing the clinical trial at issue, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site, or us. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could materially harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates. Our product candidates may cause undesirable and potentially serious side effects during clinical trials that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. As of February 9, 2009, OGX-011 has been administered to 294 patients with various types of cancer. Some of the patients experienced various adverse events, the majority of which are associated with other treatments in the protocol and the disease. The majority of adverse events were mild and the most common adverse events associated with OGX-011 consisted of flu-like symptoms. The moderate and severe adverse events most commonly associated with OGX-011 (occurring in ³ 2% of patients) were neutropenia, vomiting, diarrhea, and difficulty breathing (“dyspnea”). As of February 12, 2009, OGX-427 has been administered to 34 patients with various types of cancer in a phase 1 clinical trial. Enrollment in the OGX-427 monotherapy aspect of the phase 1 clinical trial is complete and dose-limiting toxicity was not reached at the highest doses evaluated. Enrollment in the OGX-427 in combination with docetaxel aspect of the clinical trial is ongoing. All patients experienced adverse events, the majority of which were unrelated to OGX-427. Of the adverse events associated with OGX-427, the majority of adverse events were mild and the most common adverse events consisted of flu-like symptoms, infusion-related reactions, pruritus and flushing. Serious adverse events have been reported for seventeen patients (50%). The serious adverse events were unrelated to OGX-427 administration for 14 patients and associated with OGX-427 administration for 3 patients. The events that were associated with OGX-427 administration were elevated creatinine in two patients, an indicator of kidney function, and rigors and chills in one patient. SN2310 has been administered to 26 patients with various types of cancer in a phase 1 clinical trial. Enrollment for this clinical trial has been completed. Some of the patients experienced adverse events, which were considered unrelated to study drug and attributed to underlying disease. Of the adverse events associated with SN2310, most were mild and the most common events were nausea, diarrhea, vomiting and fatigue. Mild to moderate reactions (back/chest pain, flushing) have been observed during infusions. Significant neutropenia has occurred in some patients and was the dose-limiting toxicity observed, sometimes associated with fever or septicemia. 27 Table of Contents Since patients in our clinical trials have advanced stages of cancer, we expect that additional adverse events, including serious adverse events, will occur. Undesirable side effects caused by any of our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or non-U.S. regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. In addition, if our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • we may be required to recall the product, change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; • a product may become less competitive and product sales may decrease; or • our reputation may suffer. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from the sale of the product. Recent events have raised questions about the safety of marketed drugs and may result in increased cautiousness by the FDA in reviewing new drugs based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, additional clinical trials being required, or more stringent product labeling requirements. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals, would prevent us from commercializing its product candidates. We may not be able to negotiate the exit or sublease of excess office and laboratory space currently leased in Bothell, Washington, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Prior to the Arrangement, Sonus entered into a non-cancellable lease arrangement for office and laboratory space located in Bothell, Washington, which is considered to be in excess of the Company’s current requirements. We are in the process of seeking the exit or sublease of this excess space. To date, we have not entered into any agreement for the exit or sublease of this space, or identified which transactions or transaction structures would most benefit shareholders. The goal of minimizing future lease expenditures will impact any decisions we make regarding specific deal structures or transactions into which we may enter. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to negotiate the exit or sublease of this space, on terms acceptable to us or at all or on terms which meet our or our shareholders’ expectations. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our future product candidates, our clinical trials and commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address cancer indications for which we are currently developing products or for which we may develop products in the future. We are aware of several other companies which are developing therapeutics that seek to promote tumor cell death by inhibiting proteins believed to promote cell survival. Any products we may develop in the future are also likely to face competition from other drugs and therapies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for drugs. These companies also have significantly greater research and marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutes are, or may become, active in cancer research, the products of which may be in direct competition with ours. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our future product candidates, if any, or that reach the market sooner than our future product candidates, if any, we may not achieve commercial success. 28 Table of Contents If new therapies become broadly used, we may need to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates in combination with these new therapies to demonstrate safety and efficacy of the combination. Additional trials will delay the development of our product candidates and increase our costs. The failure of certain of our product candidates to work in combination with these new therapies would have an adverse effect on our business. Our intention is to combine certain of our product candidates with therapies that are broadly used by clinicians and considered highly effective. As new therapies are developed, we will need to assess these therapies to determine whether to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates in combination with them to demonstrate safety and efficacy of the combination. If we determine that it is appropriate to conduct additional clinical trials of our product candidates in combination with these new therapies, the development of our product candidates will be delayed and our costs will be increased. If these clinical trials generate safety concerns or lack of efficacy, our business would be adversely affected. If our product candidates become approved in combination with a specific therapy that is broadly used and that therapy becomes displaced by another product, the market for our product candidate may decrease. If we were to be successfully sued related to our products or operations, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if any of our products or operations cause injury or death or are found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. These risks are inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. We currently maintain Commercial General and Umbrella Liability policies with combined limits of $10 million per occurrence and in the aggregate and in addition, a $10 million per claim and annual aggregate product liability insurance policy related to our clinical trials consistent with industry standards. When necessary for our products, we intend to obtain additional product liability insurance. Insurance coverage may be prohibitively expensive, may not fully cover potential liabilities or may not be available in the future. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. If we were to be sued for any injury caused by or associated with our products or operations, the litigation could consume substantial time and attention of our management, and the resulting liability could exceed our total assets. If we fail to acquire and develop products or product candidates at all or on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to grow our business. We currently do not have internal discovery capabilities and are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers to sell or license products or product candidates to us. To date, three of our product candidates have been derived from technologies discovered by the Prostate Centre and licensed to us by UBC and one candidate has been in-licensed from Bayer. We intend to continue to rely on the Prostate Centre, UBC and other research institutions and other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies as sources of product candidates. We cannot guarantee that the Prostate Centre or UBC will continue to develop new product candidate opportunities, that we will continue to have access to such opportunities or that we will be able to purchase or license these product candidates on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to purchase or license new product candidates from the Prostate Centre or UBC, we will be required to identify alternative sources of product candidates. 29 Table of Contents The success of our product pipeline strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire pharmaceutical product candidates. Proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable product acquisition or license is a lengthy and complex process. We compete for partnering arrangements and license agreements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic research institutions. Our competitors may have stronger relationships with third parties with whom we are interested in collaborating and/or may have more established histories of developing and commercializing products. As a result, our competitors may have a competitive advantage in entering into partnering arrangements with such third parties. In addition, even if we find promising product candidates, and generate interest in a partnering or strategic arrangement to acquire such product candidates, we may not be able to acquire rights to additional product candidates or approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we fail to acquire and develop product candidates from others, we may be unable to grow our business. We expect that any product candidate that we acquire rights to will require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical evaluation and approval by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. All product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. Even if the product candidates are approved, we cannot be sure that we would be capable of economically feasible production or commercial success. If we fail to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial, development and other resources in order to successfully pursue our research, development and commercialization efforts for our existing and future product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, pre-clinical and clinical personnel, including our executive officers, Scott Cormack, Cindy Jacobs and Stephen Anderson. The loss of the services of any of our senior management could delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. Although we have entered into employment agreements with each of Mr. Cormack, Dr. Jacobs and Mr. Anderson for an indefinite term, such agreements permit the executive to terminate his or her employment with us at any time, subject to providing us with advance written notice. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our development activities. We have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not employees of the Company and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. In addition, our advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with ours. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses and our current financial position. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and its ability to implement its business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements in a timely fashion or at all and our business may be harmed as a result. 30 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulties in managing our expected growth and in expanding our operations successfully. As we advance our product candidates through development and clinical trials, we will need to develop or expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. Maintaining additional relationships and managing our future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management. We must be able to: manage our development efforts effectively; manage our clinical trials effectively; hire, train and integrate additional management, development, administrative and sales and marketing personnel; improve our managerial, development, operational and finance systems; and expand our facilities, all of which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Furthermore, we may acquire additional businesses, products or product candidates that complement or augment our existing business. Integrating any newly acquired business, product or product candidate could be expensive and time-consuming. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business, product or product candidate successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively and our ability to integrate any acquired businesses. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing the Company. We need to further develop our financial and reporting processes, procedures and controls to support our anticipated growth. To manage the anticipated growth of our operations and personnel, we may be required to improve existing, or implement new, operational and financial systems, processes and procedures, and to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. We may be adversely impacted if our controls over external financial reporting fail or are circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. If it were to be determined that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, such shortcoming could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. This reporting requirement could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulation concerning control and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Any of these events could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees and as executive officers. 31 Table of Contents We rely, in part, on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates and plan to rely on third parties to conduct future clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our current and future product candidates. To implement our product development strategies, we rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials of our product candidates. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices (“GCPs”) for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the clinical trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If the third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to GCPs or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. In addition, a failure by such third parties to perform their obligations in compliance with GCPs may cause our clinical trials to fail to meet regulatory requirements, which may require us to repeat our clinical trials. We rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our product candidates. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities, and we depend on third-party contract manufacturers for production of our product candidates. We have limited experience in drug formulation and manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates ourselves. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in limited quantities for pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. All active pharmaceutical ingredient for OGX-011 has been manufactured for us by Isis and all drug product has been manufactured for us by Formatech, Inc. and Pyramid Laboratories, Inc., in each case pursuant to a purchase order or short-term contract that has been fulfilled. We will need to obtain additional quantities of OGX-011 to complete our first phase 3 clinical trial. All active pharmaceutical ingredient for OGX-427 for IND-enabling toxicology studies and initial clinical trials has been manufactured for us by Avecia Biotechnology Inc. and all drug product has been manufactured for us by Laureate Pharma, Inc., in each case pursuant to a purchase order or short-term contract that has been fulfilled. If, in the future, one of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture that product candidate in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the third-party manufacturers with which we have contracted in the past will have sufficient capacity to satisfy our future manufacturing needs, or that we will be able to negotiate additional purchases of active pharmaceutical ingredient or drug product from these or alternative manufacturers on terms favorable to us, or at all. Third party manufacturers may fail to perform under their contractual obligations, or may fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of bulk drug substance or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices. Any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our future product candidates, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. If we are required to identify and qualify an alternate manufacturer, we may be forced to delay or suspend our clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our product candidates, which may cause us to incur higher costs and could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates successfully. If we are unable to find one or more replacement manufacturers capable of production at a reasonably favorable cost, in adequate volumes, of adequate quality, and on a timely basis, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our product candidates and our clinical trials could be delayed or we could lose potential revenue. Our ability to replace an existing active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited to approximately four manufacturers, and the FDA must inspect any replacement manufacturer and review information related to product produced at the manufacturer before they can begin manufacturing our product candidates. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. We expect to continue to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. 32 Table of Contents Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Any of our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding standards. If our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our product candidates, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. Additionally, any third party manufacturers we retain to manufacture our product candidates on a commercial scale must pass an FDA pre-approval inspection for conformance to the cGMPs before we can obtain approval of our product candidates. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate in conformance with cGMPs, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of any related products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. If we are unable to develop our sales and marketing and distribution capability on our own or through collaborations with marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates. We currently do not have a marketing staff nor a sales or distribution organization. We currently do not have marketing, sales or distribution capabilities. If our product candidates are approved, we may establish a sales and marketing organization with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities to commercialize our product candidates, that will be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of these product candidates. We may choose to collaborate with third parties that have direct sales forces and established distribution systems, either to augment our own sales force and distribution systems or in lieu of our own sales force and distribution systems. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly marketed or sold our products, when and if we have any. In addition, any revenue we receive will depend in whole or in part upon the efforts of such third parties, which may not be successful and will generally not be within our control. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our existing and future product candidates. If we re not successful in commercializing our existing and future product candidates, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and product candidates. Our commercial success will depend on our ability to obtain patents and/or regulatory exclusivity and maintain adequate protection for our technologies and product candidates in the United States and other countries. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and future product candidates are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We apply for patents covering both our technologies and product candidates, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. In addition, we do not always control the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license from others. Accordingly, we are sometimes unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own. Moreover, the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we cannot guarantee that: • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications; • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; 33 Table of Contents • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid or enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaboration partners will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. The actual protection afforded by a patent varies on a product-by-product basis, from country to country and depends upon many factors, including the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, the availability of regulatory related extensions, the availability of legal remedies in a particular country and the validity and enforceability of the patents. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our product candidates will depend on our success in obtaining effective claims and enforcing those claims once granted. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products. Due to the extensive amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. Protection afforded by U.S. patents may be adversely affected by proposed changes to patent related U.S. statutes and to U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“U.S.PTO”) rules, especially changes to rules concerning the filing of continuation applications. If implemented, the rules may require that second or subsequent continuing application filings be supported by a showing as to why the new amendments or claims, argument or evidence presented could not have been previously submitted. Other rules, if implemented, may limit consideration by the U.S.PTO of up to only ten claims per application. It is common practice to file multiple patent applications with many claims in an effort to maximize patent protection. If the first set of proposed U.S.PTO rules are implemented, they may limit our ability to file continuing applications directed to our product candidates and methods and related competing products and methods. In addition, if the second set of U.S.PTO rules are implemented, they may limit our ability to patent a number of claims sufficient to cover our product candidates and methods and related competing products and methods. Other changes to the patent statutes may adversely affect the protection afforded by U.S. patents and/or open U.S. patents up to third party attack in non-litigation settings. 34 Table of Contents We also rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to maintain. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or our collaboration partners’ employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, non-U.S. courts are sometimes less willing than U.S. courts to protect trade secrets. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, we would not be able to assert our trade secrets against them and our business could be harmed. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our product candidates and products, when and if we have any, in every jurisdiction would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we or our licensors have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products. These products may compete with our products, when and if we have any, and may not be covered by any of our or our licensors’ patent claims or other intellectual property rights. The laws of some non-U.S. countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. The intellectual property protection for our product candidates is dependent on third parties. With respect to OGX-011, OGX-427 and OGX-225, we have exclusively licensed from UBC certain issued patents and pending patent applications covering the respective antisense sequences underlying these product candidates and their commercialization and use and we have licensed from Isis certain issued patents and pending patent applications directed to product compositions and chemical modifications used in product candidates for commercialization, use and the manufacturing thereof, as well as some alternative antisense sequences. We have also received a sublicense from Isis under certain third party patent portfolios directed to such modifications. We have entered into an exclusive in-licensing agreement with Bayer for development of caspase activators that are presently being evaluated in preclinical studies. The patents and pending patent applications underlying our licenses do not cover all potential product candidates, modifications and uses. In the case of patents and patent applications licensed from Isis and Bayer, we do not have and have not had any control over the filing, prosecution or enforcement of these patents or patent applications. We cannot be certain that such prosecution efforts have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents. We also cannot be assured that our licensors or their respective licensors will agree to enforce any such patent rights at our request or devote sufficient efforts to attain a desirable result. Any failure by our licensors or any of their respective licensing partners to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 35 Table of Contents The patent protection for our product candidates or products may expire before we are able to maximize their commercial value which may subject us to increased competition and reduce or eliminate our opportunity to generate product revenue. The patents for our product candidates have varying expiration dates and, when these patents expire, we may be subject to increased competition and we may not be able to recover our development costs. For example, the first granted U.S. patent directed to OGX-011 and licensed from UBC is due to expire in 2021. In some of the larger economic territories, such as the United States and Europe, patent term extension/restoration may be available to compensate for time taken during aspects of the product candidate’s regulatory review. However, we cannot be certain that an extension will be granted, or if granted, what the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded during any extended period will be. In addition, even though some regulatory agencies may provide some other exclusivity for a product candidate under its own laws and regulations, we may not be able to qualify the product candidate or obtain the exclusive time period. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension/restoration or some other exclusivity, we could be subject to increased competition and our opportunity to establish or maintain product revenue could be substantially reduced or eliminated. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient time to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of our U.S. and non-U.S. patents. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use of, our technology. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from using the inventions claimed in our patents or our licensed patents, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that these patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are invalid or unenforceable and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party’s activities do not infringe our rights. If we wish to use the technology or compound claimed in issued and unexpired patents owned by others, we will need to obtain a license from the owner, enter into litigation to challenge the validity or enforceability of the patents or incur the risk of litigation in the event that the owner asserts that we infringed its patents. The failure to obtain a license to technology or the failure to challenge an issued patent that we may require to discover, develop or commercialize our product candidates may have a material adverse impact on us. If a third party asserts that we infringed its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of risks that could seriously harm our results of operations, financial condition and competitive position, including: • patent infringement and other intellectual property claims, which would be costly and time consuming to defend, whether or not the claims have merit, and which could delay the regulatory approval process and divert management’s attention from our business; • substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our product candidates or technologies infringe a competitor’s patent or other proprietary rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our technologies or future drugs unless the third party licenses its patents or other proprietary rights to us on commercially reasonable terms, which it is not required to do; and • if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties or lump sum payments or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights to obtain that license. 36 Table of Contents The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our product candidates or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. U.S. patent laws as well as the laws of some foreign jurisdictions provide for provisional rights in published patent applications beginning on the date of publication, including the right to obtain reasonable royalties, if a patent subsequently issues and certain other conditions are met. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our licensors’ issued patents or our pending applications or our licensors’ pending applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to invent the technology. Patent applications filed by third parties that cover technology similar to ours may have priority over our or our licensors’ patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party files a United States patent application on an invention similar to ours, we may elect to participate in or be drawn into an interference proceeding declared by the U.S.PTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our United States patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert these claims against us or against the licensors of technology licensed to us, or whether those claims will harm our business. If we are forced to defend against these claims, whether they are with or without any merit, whether they are resolved in favor of or against us or our licensors, we may face costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention and resources. As a result of these disputes, we may have to develop costly non-infringing technology, or enter into licensing agreements. These agreements, if necessary, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which could seriously harm our business or financial condition. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to our product candidates or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Certain of our license agreements may not provide an adequate remedy for their breach by the licensor. We license the development and commercialization rights for most of our product candidates, including OGX-011, OGX-427, OGX-225 and CSP-9222, and we expect to enter into similar licenses in the future. Under such licenses, we are subject to various obligations such as royalty and milestone payments, annual maintenance fees, limits on sublicensing, insurance obligations and the obligation to use commercially reasonable best efforts to develop and exploit the licensed technology. If we fail to comply with any of these obligations or otherwise breach these agreements, our licensors may have the right to terminate the license in whole or in part or to terminate the exclusive nature of the license. Loss of any of these licenses or the exclusivity rights provided therein could harm our financial condition and operating results. In addition, certain of our license agreements with UBC eliminate our ability to obtain money damages in respect of certain claims against UBC. 37 Table of Contents We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, or our employees or consultants, have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of third parties. Many of our employees were previously employed, and certain of our consultants are currently employed, at universities or biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we have not received any claim to date, we may be subject to claims that these employees or consultants or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of these current or former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. We may be subject to claims that employees of our partners or licensors of technology licensed by us have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. We may become involved in litigation to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Risks Related to our Common Stock and Other Securities If we raise additional financing, the terms of such transactions may cause dilution to existing shareholders or contain terms that are not favorable to us. To date, our sources of cash have been limited primarily to proceeds from the private or public placement of our securities. In the future, we may seek to raise additional financing through private placements or public offerings of our equity or debt securities. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. The price for our common stock is volatile. The market prices for our common stock and that of emerging growth companies generally have historically been highly volatile. Future announcements concerning us or our competitors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. If we were to fail to meet any of the continued listing requirements for the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock could be delisted, the effects of which could include limited release of a market price of our common stock, limited liquidity for stockholders and limited news coverage and could result in an adverse effect on the market for our common stock. Further, if our common stock is delisted, we may have difficulties in raising, or may be unable to raise, additional funds with which to operate our business by selling our common stock. The stock markets also experience significant price and volume fluctuation unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. An increase in the market price of our common shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable, may be your sole source of gain from an investment in our common shares. An investment in our common shares may not be appropriate for investors who require dividend income. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, an investment in our common shares may not be appropriate for investors who require dividend income. 38 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our shareholder rights plan, our constating documents and under Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult. We have a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. Specifically, the rights issued under the shareholder rights plan could cause significant dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock and the ability of our board of directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. Collectively, these provisions could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult or could discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities, which regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of a NDA, from the FDA. We have not submitted an application for or received marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Obtaining approval of an NDA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA, non-U.S. regulatory authorities’ or other applicable United States and non-U.S. regulatory requirements may, either before or after product approval, if any, subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process; • warning letters; • civil and criminal penalties; • injunctions; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • product seizures, detentions or import bans; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; • total or partial suspension of production; • imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and • refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs. 39 Table of Contents Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. The number of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: • a drug candidate may not be deemed safe or effective; • the FDA may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; • the FDA might not approve our third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; or • third party products may enter the market and change approval requirements. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, the terms of approvals and ongoing regulation of our product candidates may limit how we manufacture and market our product candidates, which could materially impair our ability to generate revenue. Upon regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates, if any, the approved product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. Any regulatory approval that we receive for a product candidate is likely to be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the end product may be marketed, or include requirements for potentially costly post-approval follow-up clinical trials. In addition, if the FDA and/or non-U.S. regulatory authorities approve any of our product candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the end product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We and the manufacturers of our products, when and if we have any, will also be required to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”) regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products, when and if we have any, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspection. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products, when and if we have any, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process; • warning letters; • civil or criminal penalties or fines; • injunctions; • product seizures, detentions or import bans; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; 40 Table of Contents • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; • imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and • refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs. In addition, the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change their policies and additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States, Canada or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we would likely not be permitted to market our future product candidates and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our products. Even if our product candidates obtain regulatory approval, resulting products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and/or the medical community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: • timing of market introduction of competitive products; • safety and efficacy of our products; • prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; • strength of marketing and distribution support; • price of our products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; and • availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payors. If our future product candidates fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue or achieve or sustain profitability. There is a high risk that our drug development activities will not result in commercial products. Our product candidates are in various stages of development and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. We will need to complete significant additional clinical trials before we can demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that take years to complete. Failure can occur at any stage of the process, and successful early clinical trials do not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials. In addition, a clinical trial may prove successful with respect to a secondary objective, but fail to demonstrate clinically significant benefits with respect to a primary objective. Failure to satisfy a primary objective in a phase 3 clinical trial (registration trial) would generally mean that a product candidate would not receive regulatory approval. 41 Table of Contents If government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our product candidates, our revenues and potential for profitability will be reduced. In the United States and elsewhere, our product revenues will depend principally upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payors, including government health administration authorities, managed-care providers, public health insurers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, and examining the cost effectiveness, of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved drugs, pharmaceutical products or product indications. We may need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of products. Such clinical trials may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. If reimbursement of such product is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our revenues could be reduced. In some countries other than the United States, particularly the countries of the European Union and Canada, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, obtaining pricing approval from governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval of a product for an indication. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of one of our product candidates to other available therapies. If reimbursement of such product candidate is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our revenues could be reduced. Domestic and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare, including drugs. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reforms the way Medicare will cover and reimburse for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expands Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and eventually will introduce a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for certain drugs. In addition, the new legislation provides authority for limiting the number of outpatient drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of the new legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. The Medicaid program and state healthcare laws and regulations may also be modified to change the scope of covered products and/or reimbursement methodology. Cost control initiatives could decrease the established reimbursement rates that we receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenues and profitability. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products, including OGX-011, may change at any time, which could further limit or eliminate reimbursement rates for OGX-011 or other product candidates. Failure to obtain regulatory approval outside the United States would prevent us from marketing our product candidates abroad. We intend to market certain of our existing and future product candidates in non-North American markets. In order to market our existing and future product candidates in the European Union and many other non-North American jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have had no interactions with non-North American regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more non-North American regulatory authorities does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. The non-North American regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain non-North American regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for non-North American regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our existing and future product candidates in any market. 42 Table of Contents We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years and particularly over the past year. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 