ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Business An investment in our securities involves various risks. All investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the other information in this report before trading our securities. We may not be able to compete successfully with other entities that operate in our industry. We experience a great deal of competition in attracting purchasers for our properties and in locating land to develop and properties to acquire. In our effort to lease our properties, we compete with a broad spectrum of other entities in each of our markets. These competitors include, among others, publicly held REITs, privately held entities and individual property owners. Some of these competitors may be able to offer more attractive financial terms than we are able to offer. If the availability of land or high quality properties in our markets diminishes, our operating results could be adversely affected. We may experience increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our financial results and the value of our properties. Our properties are subject to increases in operating expenses such as insurance, administrative costs and other costs associated with security and maintenance of our properties. While our current tenants generally are obligated to pay a portion of these costs, there is no assurance that these tenants will make such payments or agree to pay these costs upon renewal or that new tenants will agree to pay these costs. If operating expenses increase in our markets, we may not be able to increase rents or reimbursements in all of these markets so as to meet increased expenses without, at the same time, decreasing occupancy rates. If this occurs, our ability to make distributions to shareholders and service our indebtedness could be adversely affected. We face risks associated with property acquisitions. We acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties and intend to continue to do so. Our acquisition activities and their successes are subject to the following risks: • when we are able to locate a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price; • acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; • the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than original estimates; • acquired properties may be located in new markets where we face risks associated with an incomplete knowledge or understanding of the local market, a limited number of established business relationships in the area and a relative unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into existing operations, and results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we may be required to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. 5 Our land holdings are concentrated in our primary markets, and we therefore may suffer economic harm as a result of adverse conditions in those markets. Our properties are located principally in a specific geographic area in the southwestern United States. Due to the concentration of our properties in this area, performance is dependent on economic conditions. This area has experienced periods of economic decline in the past, and may do so in the future. We are leveraged and we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. We had total indebtedness at December 31, 2013 of approximately $12.4 million. Substantially all assets have been pledged to secure debt. These borrowings increase the risk of loss because they represent a prior claim on assets and most require fixed payments regardless of profitability. Our leveraged position makes us vulnerable to declines in the general economy and may limit the Company’s ability to pursue other business opportunities in the future. We may not be able to access financial markets to obtain capital on a timely basis, or on acceptable terms. We rely on proceeds from property dispositions and third party capital sources for a portion of our capital needs, including capital for acquisitions and development. The public debt and equity markets are among the sources on which we rely. There is no guarantee that we will be able to access these markets, or any other source of capital. The ability to access the public debt and equity markets depends on a variety of factors, including: • general economic conditions affecting these markets; • our own financial structure and performance; • the market’s opinion of real estate companies in general; and • the market’s opinion of real estate companies that own properties like ours. We may suffer adverse effects as a result of the terms of and covenants relating to our indebtedness. Required payments on our indebtedness generally are not reduced if the economic performance of the portfolios declines. If the economic performance declines, net income, cash flow from operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders will be reduced. If payments on debt cannot be made, we could sustain a loss, or in the case of mortgages, suffer foreclosures by mortgagees or suffer judgments. Further, some obligations contain cross-default and/or cross-acceleration provisions, meaning that a default on one obligation may constitute a default on other obligations. We anticipate that only a small portion of the principal of our debt will be repaid prior to maturity. Therefore, we are likely to need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debts as they mature. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as the proceeds of sales of assets or new equity securities, our cash flow will not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant “balloon” payments come due. Our credit facilities and unsecured debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt to asset ratios, secured debt to total asset ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt, which we must maintain. Our continued ability to borrow is subject to compliance with our financial and other covenants. In addition, our failure to comply with such covenants could cause a default under credit facilities and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or affect the market price of our common stock. The degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. The degree of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on variable rate debt and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt. We currently have, and may incur more, indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures. We may need to sell properties from time to time for cash flow purposes. 6 Because of the lack of liquidity of real estate investments generally, our ability to respond to changing circumstances may be impaired. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In the event that we must sell assets to generate cash flow, we cannot predict whether there will be a market for those assets in the time period we desire or need to sell them, or whether we will be able to sell them at a price that will allow us to fully recoup our investment. We may not be able to realize the full potential value of our assets and we may incur costs related to the early pay-off of the debt secured by such assets. The overall business is subject to all of the risks associated with the real estate industry. We are subject to all risks incident to investment in real estate, many of which relate to the general lack of liquidity of real estate investments, including, but not limited to: • changes in general or local economic conditions—because our real estate assets are concentrated in the southwest, any deterioration in the general economic conditions in any of those states could have an adverse effect on our business and assets in a given state; • changes in interest rates that may make our ability to satisfy our debt service requirements materially more burdensome; • lack of availability of financing that may render the purchase, sale or refinancing of a property more difficult or unattractive; • changes in real estate and zoning laws; • increases in real estate taxes and insurance costs; • federal or local economic or rent control; and • hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other similar natural disasters. Adverse economic conditions and dislocations in the credit markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and financial condition. Our business may be affected by market and economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy or real estate industry as a whole or by the local economic conditions in the markets in which our properties are located, including the current dislocations in the credit markets and general global economic recession. These current conditions, or similar conditions existing in the future, may adversely affect our results of operations, and financial condition as a result of the following, among other potential consequences: • our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; • reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and • one or more lenders could refuse to fund their financing commitment to us or could fail and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all. Real estate investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to sell properties if and when it is appropriate to do so. Real estate generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to dispose of properties promptly in response to economic or other conditions. In addition, provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to sell properties (without incurring significant tax costs) in some situations when it may be otherwise economically advantageous to do so, thereby adversely affecting returns to stockholders and adversely impacting our ability to meet our obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 