ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors in this section describe the major risks to our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and should be considered carefully. In addition, these factors constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements (as defined in such act) made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investors should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Any statements that are not historical facts and that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, 13 Table of Contents objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimated,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes” and “projects”) may be forward-looking and may involve estimates and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of such factors. Further, we cannot assess the impact of each such factor on our results of operations or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. We may be adversely affected by factors affecting our customers’ businesses. Factors that adversely impact our customers’ businesses may also have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These factors may include: • any reduction in consumer traffic and demand as a result of economic downturns like the recent domestic and global recessions; • any credit risks associated with the financial condition of our customers; • the effect of consolidation or weakness in the retail industry, including the closure of customer doors and the uncertainty resulting therefrom; and • inventory reduction initiatives and other factors affecting customer buying patterns, including any reduction in retail space commitment to fragrances and cosmetics and practices used to control inventory shrinkage. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We sell our products in approximately 100 countries around the world. During each of the years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, we derived approximately 40% of our net sales from our international operations. We conduct our international operations in a variety of different countries and derive our sales in various currencies including the Euro, British pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Australian dollar, as well as the U.S. dollar. Most of our skin care and cosmetic products are produced in third-party manufacturing facilities located in the U.S. Our operations may be subject to volatility because of currency changes, inflation changes and changes in political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate. With respect to international operations, our sales, cost of goods sold and expenses are typically denominated in a combination of local currency and the U.S. dollar. Our results of operations are reported in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in currency rates can affect our reported sales, margins, operating costs and the anticipated settlement of our foreign denominated receivables and payables. A weakening of the foreign currencies in which we generate sales relative to the currencies in which our costs are denominated, which is primarily the U.S. dollar, could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our competitors may or may not be subject to the same fluctuations in currency rates, and our competitive position could be affected by these changes. We do not have contracts with customers or with suppliers of our distributed brands, so if we cannot maintain and develop relationships with such customers and suppliers our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We do not have long-term or exclusive contracts with any of our customers and generally do not have long-term or exclusive contracts with our suppliers of distributed brands. Our ten largest 14 Table of Contents customers accounted for approximately 39% of our net sales in the year ended June 30, 2011. Our only customer who accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in the year ended June 30, 2011 was Wal-Mart (including Sam’s Club), who accounted for approximately 14% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 22% of our North America segment net sales. In addition, our suppliers of distributed brands, which represented approximately 11% of our net sales for fiscal 2011, generally can, at any time, elect to supply products to our customers directly or through another distributor. Our suppliers of distributed brands may also choose to reduce or eliminate the volume of their products distributed by us. The loss of any of our key suppliers or customers, or a change in our relationship with any one of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We depend on various licenses for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of one or more licenses or agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. The sales and marketing of certain of our prestige fragrance brands are derived from licenses from unaffiliated third parties and our business is dependent upon the continuation and renewal of such licenses on terms favorable to us. Each license is for a specific term and may have optional terms. In addition, such licenses may be subject to us making required minimum royalty payments, minimum advertising and promotional expenditures and meeting minimum sales requirements. Just as the loss of a license or other significant agreement may have a material adverse effect on us, a renewal on less favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We rely on third-party manufacturers and component suppliers for substantially all of our owned and licensed products. We do not own or operate any significant manufacturing facilities. We use third-party manufacturers and component suppliers to manufacture substantially all of our owned and licensed products. As part of our Initiative, we have reduced the number of third-party manufacturers and component and materials suppliers that we use, and have implemented a “turnkey” manufacturing process for substantially all of our products in which we now rely on our third-party manufacturers for certain supply chain functions that we previously handled ourselves, such as component and materials planning, purchasing and warehousing. Our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected if we experience any supply chain disruptions caused by our implementation of this “turnkey” manufacturing process or other supply chain projects, or if our manufacturers or component suppliers were to experience problems with product quality, credit or liquidity issues, or disruptions or delays in the manufacturing process or delivery of the finished products or the raw materials or components used to make such products. The loss of or disruption in our distribution facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently have one distribution facility and one promotional set assembly facility in the United States and use a third-party fulfillment center in France primarily for European distribution. These facilities house a large portion of our inventory. Although we insure our inventory, any loss of or damage to these facilities or the inventory stored in these facilities, could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our business is subject to regulation in the United States and internationally. The manufacturing, distribution, formulation, packaging and advertising of our products and those we distribute for others are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign governmental regulations. The number of laws and regulations that are being enacted or proposed by state, federal and international governments and governmental authorities are increasing. Compliance with these regulations is difficult and expensive and may require reformulation, repackaging, relabeling or 15 Table of Contents discontinuation of certain of our products. If we fail to adhere, or are alleged to have failed to adhere, to any applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, or if such laws or regulations negatively affect sales of our products, our business, prospects, results of operation, financial condition or cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition, our future results could be adversely affected by changes in applicable federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, including those relating to products or ingredients, product liability, trade rules and customs regulations, intellectual property, consumer laws, privacy laws, as well as accounting standards and taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations). Adverse U.S. or global economic conditions could negatively impact our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We believe that consumer spending on beauty products is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Adverse U.S. or global economic conditions, such as the recent global recession, periods of inflation or high energy prices can contribute to higher unemployment levels, decreased consumer spending, reduced credit availability and declining consumer confidence and demand, each of which poses risks to our business. A decrease in consumer spending and/or in retailer and consumer confidence and demand for our products could significantly negatively impact our net sales and profitability, including our operating margins and return on invested capital. Such economic conditions could cause some of our customers or suppliers to experience cash flow and/or credit problems and impair their financial condition, which could disrupt our business and adversely affect product orders, payment patterns and default rates and increase our bad debt expense. Adverse economic conditions could also adversely affect our access to the capital necessary for our business and our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenant in our revolving credit facility that applies only in the event that we do not have the requisite average borrowing base capacity as set forth in our credit facility. If the recent adverse U.S. and global economic conditions persist or deteriorate further, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be negatively impacted. We may be adversely affected by domestic and international events that impact consumer confidence and demand. Sudden disruptions in business conditions due to events such as terrorist attacks, diseases or natural disasters may have a short-term, or sometimes long-term, adverse impact on consumer confidence and spending. In addition, any reductions in travel or increases in restrictions on travelers’ ability to transport our products on airplanes due to general economic downturns, diseases, increased security levels, acts of war or terrorism could result in a material decline in the net sales and profitability of our travel retail business. The beauty industry is highly competitive and if we cannot effectively compete our business and results of operations will suffer. The beauty industry is highly competitive and can change rapidly due to consumer preferences and industry trends. Competition in the beauty industry is based on brand strength, pricing and assortment of products, innovation, perceived value, product availability and order fulfillment, service to the consumer, promotional activities, advertising, special events, new product introductions, e-commerce initiatives and other activities. Also, the trend toward consolidation in the retail trade, particularly in developed, markets such as the United States and Western Europe, has resulted in us becoming increasingly dependent on key retailers, including large-format retailers, who have increased their bargaining strength. We compete primarily with global prestige beauty companies and multinational consumer product companies, some of whom have greater resources than we have and brands with greater name recognition and consumer loyalty than our brands. Our success depends on our products’ appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, and on our ability to anticipate and respond in a 16 Table of Contents timely and cost-effective manner to market trends through product innovations and product line extensions. We may incur expenses in connection with product innovation and development, marketing and advertising that are not subsequently supported by a sufficient level of sales, which could negatively affect our results of operations. These competitive factors, as well as new product risks, could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our business strategy depends upon our ability to increase sales of the Elizabeth Arden brand and our prestige fragrance portfolio, as well as our ability to acquire or license additional brands or secure additional distribution arrangements and obtain the required financing for these agreements and arrangements. Our business strategy contemplates the continued growth of our portfolio of owned, licensed and distributed brands. Increasing sales of the Elizabeth Arden brand and our prestige fragrance portfolio may require investments that may result in short-term costs without any current revenue. In addition, our future expansion through acquisitions, new product licenses or new product distribution arrangements, if any, will depend upon our ability to identify suitable brands to acquire, license or distribute and our ability to obtain the required financing for these acquisitions, licenses or distribution arrangements, and thus depends on the capital resources and working capital available to us. We may not be able to identify, negotiate, finance or consummate such acquisitions, licenses or arrangements, or the associated working capital requirements, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could hinder our ability to increase revenues and build our business. The success of our business depends, in part, on the demand for celebrity beauty products. We have license agreements to manufacture, market and distribute a number of celebrity beauty products, including those of Elizabeth Taylor, Britney Spears, Taylor Swift, Mariah Carey and Usher. In fiscal 2011, we derived approximately 21% of our net sales from celebrity beauty products. The demand for these products is, to some extent, dependent on the appeal to consumers of the particular celebrity and the celebrity’s reputation. To the extent that the celebrity fragrance category or a particular celebrity ceases to be appealing to consumers or a celebrity’s reputation is adversely affected, sales of the related products and the value of the brands can decrease materially. In addition, under certain circumstances, lower net sales may shorten the duration of the applicable license agreement. We may not be able to successfully and cost-effectively integrate acquired businesses or new brands. Acquisitions entail numerous integration risks and impose costs on us that could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, products or brands, including disruptions to our operations or the unavailability of key employees from acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • incurrence or assumption of additional debt and liabilities; and • incurrence of significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets and the potential impairment of acquired assets. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with the trademarks and patents that we own or license. We own, or have licenses or other rights to use, the 17 Table of Contents material trademarks and patents used in connection with the ingredients, packaging, marketing and distribution of our major owned and licensed products both in the U.S. and in other countries where such products are principally sold. Although most of our brand names are registered in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The costs required to protect our trademarks and patents may be substantial. We also cannot assure that the owners of the trademarks that we license can or will successfully maintain their intellectual property rights. If other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights that we license, the value of our brands in the marketplace may be diluted. In addition, any infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. We may infringe on others’ intellectual property rights, which may result in a reduction in sales or profitability and a commitment of our time and resources to defend through litigation or otherwise. One or more adverse judgments with respect to these intellectual property rights could negatively impact our ability to compete and could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If our intangible assets, such as trademarks, patents and goodwill, become impaired, we may be required to record a significant non-cash charge to earnings which would negatively impact our results of operations. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our intangible assets, including our trademarks, patents, licenses and goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be fully recoverable. The carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows, including those associated with the specific brands to which intangibles relate, or slower growth rates in our industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a long-term financial outlook of our operations and the specific brands to which the intangible assets relate. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates and the recorded value of the intangibles. For example, a significant sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization may result in impairment of certain of our intangible assets, including goodwill, and a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which an impairment is determined to exist. Any such impairment charge could materially reduce our results of operations. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We operate on a global basis, with sales in approximately 100 countries. Approximately 40% of our fiscal 2011 net sales were generated outside of the United States. Our international operations could be adversely affected by: • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • changes in, or our unfamiliarity with, foreign laws and regulations, including those related to product registration, ingredients and labeling; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and • changes in social, political, legal and other conditions. 18 Table of Contents Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors, and we may not have sufficient liquidity to meet our seasonal working capital requirements We generate a significant portion of our net income in the first half of our fiscal year as a result of higher sales in anticipation of the holiday season. Similarly, our working capital needs are greater during the first half of the fiscal year. We may experience variability in net sales and net income on a quarterly basis as a result of a variety of factors, including new product innovations and launches, the size and timing of customer orders and additions or losses of brand distribution rights. If we were to experience a significant shortfall in sales or internally generated funds, we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund our business. Our level of debt and debt service obligations, and the restrictive covenants in our revolving credit facility and our indenture for our 7 3/8% senior notes, may reduce our operating and financial flexibility and could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. At June 30, 2011, we had total debt of $250 million representing the aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 7 3/8% senior notes. There was no balance outstanding at June 30, 2011 under our revolving bank credit facility. The 7 3/8% senior notes and revolving bank credit facility have requirements that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our indebtedness could adversely impact our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows by increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and restricting our ability to consummate acquisitions or fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements. Specifically, our revolving credit facility and our indenture for our 7 3/8% senior notes limit or otherwise affect our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • create or permit certain liens, other than customary and ordinary liens; • sell assets other than in the ordinary course of our business; • invest in other entities or businesses; and • consolidate or merge with or into other companies or sell all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions could limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. Our revolving credit facility also requires us to maintain specified amounts of borrowing capacity or maintain a debt service coverage ratio. Our ability to meet these conditions and our ability to service our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which can be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. If our actual results deviate significantly from our projections, we may not be able to service our debt or remain in compliance with the conditions contained in our revolving credit facility, and we would not be allowed to borrow under the revolving credit facility. If we were not able to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we would be required to develop an alternative source of liquidity. We cannot assure you that we could obtain replacement financing on favorable terms or at all. A default under our revolving credit facility could also result in a default under our indenture for our 7 3/8% senior notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our indenture, all amounts outstanding under our other indebtedness may be declared to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay amounts due on our revolving credit facility, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that debt. 19 Table of Contents Our success depends, in part, on the quality, efficacy and safety of our products. Our success depends, in part, on the quality, efficacy and safety of our products. If our products are found to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet customer or consumer standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our success depends upon the retention and availability of key personnel and the succession of senior management. Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key personnel. Our future operations could be harmed if we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior executives and other key personnel. In addition, if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, including our chief executive officer, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • volatility in the financial markets; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual financial results; • announcements or significant developments with respect to beauty products or the beauty industry in general; • general economic and political conditions; • governmental policies and regulations; and • financial analyst and rating agency actions. We are subject to risks associated with implementing, managing and maintaining global information systems. We have information systems that support our business processes, including supply chain, marketing, sales, order processing, distribution, finance and intracompany communications throughout the world. All of our global information systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, security breaches and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, “hacking” and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. Our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be adversely affected by the occurrence of these or other events that could disrupt or damage our information systems, and/or any failure to properly maintain or upgrade our information systems. We outsource certain functions, making us dependent on the entities and facilities performing those functions. We are continually looking for opportunities to secure essential business services in a more cost-effective manner, without impacting the quality of the service rendered. In some cases, this requires the outsourcing of functions or parts of functions that can be performed more effectively by external service providers. These include certain information systems functions such as information technology operations and certain human resource functions such as employee benefit plan administration. We conduct appropriate due diligence before entering into agreements with the outsourcing entity, and use service level agreements and operating metrics to monitor and assess 20 Table of Contents performance. We believe the failure of one or more entities to properly provide the expected services without disruption, provide them on a timely basis or to provide them at the prices we expect may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, substantially all of our data center operations are located in a facility in Raleigh, North Carolina, and any loss of or damage to the facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects, financial condition or cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 