Item 1A. Risk Factors General Economic and Market Risk Sequa’s operations may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and by changes in the economic conditions of the industries in which it operates. Many of the products offered experience cyclical demand and the results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclicality. As discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Item 7 in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading “Risk/Concentration of Business”, which is incorporated herein by reference, the Aerospace and Automotive segments operate in industries that have experienced significant pressures. In addition, a significant portion of Sequa's operations are located outside of the US, which increases the risk related to changes in governmental regulations, political instability, import restrictions and the general economic and market conditions to such countries. Competition Sequa encounters substantial competition in each of its product areas. In addition, some of Sequa's competitors are larger and possess greater financial and other resources. If Sequa is unable to respond successfully to changing competitive conditions, the demand for Sequa’s products can be adversely affected. Indebtedness Sequa has a significant amount of indebtedness. The ability to service existing obligations with respect to interest and principal, as well as the ability to refinance such principal, will depend on the cash flow generated by Sequa's operations and the ability to receive future distributions on borrowings from Sequa's subsidiaries. Debt service requirements could result in a diversion of cash from the expansion or maintenance of operating infrastructure, and Sequa may incur additional costs to remedy any failure to comply with restrictions included in its debt agreements. Substantial Control The Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors controls more than 50% of the voting power of Sequa stock and can effectively direct company policies, elect all of the directors, influence any merger or sale of all or substantially all of the company’s assets, initiate a “going private” transaction, and prevent or cause a “change in control” of Sequa. Loss of Key Personnel Sequa’s operations depend on a relatively small group of key management personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more individuals could have an adverse effect on operations of certain business units. Sequa’s future success will depend on its ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 