Item 1A. Risk Factors General Economic and Market Risk Sequa’s operations may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and by changes in the economic conditions of the industries in which it operates. Many of the products offered experience cyclical demand and the results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclicality. As discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Item 7 in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading “Risk/Concentration of Business,” which is incorporated herein by reference, the Aerospace and Automotive segments operate in industries that have experienced significant pressures. In addition, a significant portion of Sequa's operations is located outside the US, which increases the risk related to changes in governmental regulations, political instability, import restrictions and the general economic and market conditions to such countries. Competition Sequa encounters substantial competition in each of its product areas. In addition, some of Sequa's competitors are larger and possess greater financial and other resources. If Sequa is unable to respond successfully to changing competitive conditions, the demand for Sequa’s products can be adversely affected. Indebtedness Sequa has a significant amount of indebtedness. The ability to service existing obligations with respect to interest and principal, as well as the ability to refinance such principal, will depend on the cash flow generated by Sequa's operations and the ability to receive future distributions on borrowings from Sequa's subsidiaries. Debt service requirements could result in a diversion of cash from the expansion or maintenance of operating infrastructure, and Sequa may incur additional costs to remedy any failure to comply with restrictions included in its debt agreements. Substantial Control The estate of the late Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors controls more than 50% of the voting power of Sequa stock and can effectively direct company policies, elect all of the directors, influence any merger or sale of all or substantially all of the company’s assets, initiate a “going private” transaction, and prevent or cause a “change in control” of Sequa. Loss of Key Personnel Sequa’s operations depend on a relatively small group of key management personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more individuals could have an adverse effect on operations of certain business units. Sequa’s future success will depend on its ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel. Raw Materials The cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of Sequa’s products, particularly in the Aerospace, Automotive, Metal Coating and Specialty Chemicals segments. Sequa’s inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, or productivity actions could adversely affect its results of operations. Foreign Operations International operations comprise a substantial proportion of Sequa’s operating results and Sequa’s strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as China and India. In 2006, 33% of total sales were outside of the US. Risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import and trade restrictions, government instability and the ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions. Environmental Liabilities Sequa is subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards. Sequa has incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and is a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental matters. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. Sequa is subject to various government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. Sequa incurs, and expects to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require Sequa to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on the financial condition or results of operations. Tax Liabilities Sequa is subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and its domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. In 2006, Sequa’s tax expense represented 25.8% of income from continuing operations before income taxes, and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings that could effect the valuation of deferred tax assets. Future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and continuing assessments of Sequa’s tax exposures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 