ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should read and consider carefully each of the following factors, as well as the other information contained in, attached to or incorporated by reference in this report. If any of the following risks materialize, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business operations. The demand for our services are affected by changes in general economic conditions and consumer confidence. Changes in general economic conditions and consumer confidence affect the demand for our services. All of our operations are conducted in Florida at the present time and unfavorable economic conditions in Florida will adversely impact our business. The weakness in the Florida housing market, the high unemployment rate and the overall weakness in the national and international economies may reduce consumer confidence and related spending levels and in turn, reduce the demand for our services. Our markets are highly competitive. Competition could reduce our market share and adversely impact our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our revenues and earnings may be adversely affected by changes in competitive prices. Competition in the market for lawn care services is strong, coming mainly from large national companies including TruGreen/Chemlawn and, to a lesser extent, from local, independently owned firms and from homeowners who care for their own lawns. Competition in the market for pest control services is strong, coming mainly from regional and local, independently owned firms, and, to a lesser extent, from large national companies including Orkin and Terminix, and from homeowners who treat their own pest control problems. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas that we serve are quality of service, pricing, assurance of customer satisfaction and reputation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face will not result in reduced market share and negatively impact our financial performance. We operate in a business that deals with changing technology We operate in an environment that is constantly changing with the introduction of technological advancements. To be competitive we need to remain abreast of advances in chemical treatments, bait traps and other products and procedures used within the industry. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face due to technological advancements will not result in reduced market share and negatively impact our financial performance. We are geographically concentrated in Florida making us vulnerable to adverse weather conditions and climate specific seasonality which may affect the demand and profitability of our termite, pest control and lawn care services. Our lawn and pest control operations are conducted in Florida and may be adversely affected by interruptions in business and property damage caused by severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, tropical storms and flooding. Middleton’s business is also affected by the seasonal nature of its termite control services. The termite swarm season, which generally occurs in early spring but varies by region depending on climate, leads to the highest demand for termite control services and therefore the highest level of revenues. Weather conditions affect the demand for lawn care services and may result in a decrease in revenues or an increase in costs Our inability to attract and retain skilled workers may impair growth potential and profitability. Our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain skilled workers. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. The demand for skilled employees is high, and the supply is very limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates paid by us, or both. If either of these events occurred, our capacity and profitability could be diminished, and our growth potential could be impaired. Our financial performance may be impacted by increases in operating costs. 9 Table of Contents Our financial performance is affected by factor costs, such as labor, health care, vehicle, fuel, and insurance premiums. In particular, our financial performance is affected by increases in operating costs, such as the increased fuel and petroleum based chemical costs experienced in fiscal 2008. Increases in raw material prices, fuel prices and other operating costs adversely affect our results of operations. Our financial performance is affected by the level of our operating expenses, such as fuel, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, health care, vehicle, and insurance costs, all of which may be subject to inflation. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, fuel prices have fluctuated widely. If fuel prices increase our costs of operating vehicles and equipment would also increase. Fuel price increases could also result in increases in the cost of fertilizer, and other petrochemicals used in our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may experience future increases in fuel costs and other operating costs. To the extent such costs should increase, we may not be able to fully pass these increased costs through to our existing and prospective customers, thereby reducing our profitability. Public perceptions that our products and services are not environmentally friendly or safe may adversely affect the demand for our services. In providing our services, we use, among other things, fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides. Public perception that our products and services are not environmentally friendly or safe or are harmful to humans, whether justified or not, could lead to reduced demand for our services, impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with regulatory and environmental laws. Our business is significantly affected by environmental laws and other regulations relating to the pest control and lawn care industries and by changes in such laws and the level of enforcement of such laws. We are unable to predict the level of enforcement of existing laws and regulations, how such laws and regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or court rulings, or whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted. We believe our present operations comply with applicable federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations in all material respects. We also believe that compliance with such laws has had no material adverse effect on our operations to date. However, such environmental laws are changed frequently. We are unable to predict whether environmental laws will, in the future, materially affect our operations and financial condition. Penalties for noncompliance with these laws may include cancellation of licenses, fines, and other corrective actions, which would negatively affect our future financial results. We may acquire other lawn care and pest control services businesses, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and existing business. Since June 2005 through the end of fiscal 2008, we have acquired 13 lawn care and pest control service companies. In fiscal 2009, we plan on concentrating on organic growth and do not plan on acquiring any new lawn care or pest control companies. However, we will consider selective acquisitions of lawn care and pest control companies in fiscal 2009 if they are strategic to our business plan. The success of our acquisition program will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable candidates; • competition from other companies for the purchase of available candidates; • our ability to value those candidates accurately and negotiate favorable terms for those acquisitions; • the availability of funds to finance acquisitions; and • the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the acquired businesses. 10 Table of Contents Financing for the acquisitions may come from several sources, including our existing cash on hand as well as the proceeds from the exercise of outstanding warrants, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock or other securities. The issuance of a material amount of additional securities could, among other things: • result in substantial dilution of the percentage ownership of our shareholders at the time of issuance; • result in the substantial dilution of our earnings per share; • adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock; and • result in increased indebtedness, which could negatively affect our liquidity and operating flexibility. Our inability to successfully integrate businesses we acquire could have adverse consequences on our business. We have experienced significant growth through acquisitions and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions result in greater administrative burdens and operating costs and, to the extent financed with debt, additional interest costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or integrate acquired companies or businesses successfully. The process of integrating our acquired businesses may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our business as a result of the following factors, among others: • loss of key employees or customers; • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information and other systems; • failure to maintain the quality of services that the companies have historically provided; • the need to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to deal with any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we currently expect to result from that integration and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results and financial condition. We may not realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our acquisitions. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we anticipate. The potential cost savings associated with an acquisition are based on analyses completed by our employees. These analyses necessarily involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, costs to operate our business and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. While we believe these analyses and their underlying assumptions to be reasonable, they are estimates which are difficult to predict and necessarily speculative in nature. If we achieve the expected benefits, they may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other synergies from these acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses, operating losses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. Our indebtedness under our revolving line of credit may negatively impact our ability to implement our business plan. We have a revolving line of credit with a financial institution. The revolving line of credit requires us to maintain specified financial ratios regarding leverage, interest coverage and EBITDA. The revolving line of credit also places certain restrictions on, among other things, our ability to create or incur indebtedness, pay or make dividends or other distributions, create or permit certain liens, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with other entities. As a result, a failure to maintain these specified financial ratios and the amount and terms of our indebtedness under the revolving line of credit may negatively impact our ability to implement our business plan. For example, it could: • limit our ability to fund future acquisitions, working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 11 Table of Contents • increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are less leveraged; • require us to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet our payment obligations; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Termination of our Amended Management Services Agreement could affect our business. We are a party to an Amended Management Services Agreement with RPC pursuant to which RPC, subject to the oversight and review of our board of directors, provides us with certain management services. The Amended Management Services Agreement is for a term of three years and expires on February 7, 2011. After the initial three year term, the Amended Management Services Agreement will automatically renew for successive one year terms, unless either RPC or the Company terminates the agreement upon 30 days notice. These management services include, among other things: • establishing certain office, accounting and administrative procedures; • assisting us in trying to obtain financing relating to business operations and acquisitions; • helping us in developing and implementing advertising, promotional and marketing programs; • advising us with respect to securities matters as well as future acquisitions and dispositions; • assisting us in developing tax planning strategies; • formulating risk management policies; and • other management services as may be requested by us. Our arrangement may be terminated in accordance with certain provisions of the Amended Management Services Agreement. The termination of such agreement could have a significant adverse effect on us as we would no longer be able to benefit from RPC’s knowledge, experience and guidance, and the loss of RPC’s services as our manager could adversely affect our business plan and results of operations, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to achieve enhanced profitability. Our company is dependent on our ability to retain and hire management personnel to oversee the business operations We are dependent upon the services of management personnel who are knowledgeable in the lawn and pest control services industry. The loss of key management personnel could have an adverse effect on us as we would no longer benefit from the knowledge and expertise they possess. In addition, our inability to attract or retain executive officers and employees to manage the company could seriously harm the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company. Product liability claims or inadequate product liability insurance coverage may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to our use of pesticides and chemicals in our lawn and pest control business. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of the products that we use causes, or appears to have caused, an injury. Product liability claims may result in: • substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs; • costs of related litigation; • injury to our reputation; and • decreased demand for our products. 12 Table of Contents We currently maintain product liability coverage against risks associated with our services. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at an acceptable cost, if at all, or in sufficient amounts to protect us against such liability. The obligation to pay any product liability claim in excess of whatever insurance we are able to acquire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. Coconut Palm, an entity affiliated with two of our directors, has the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders. Two of our directors through their affiliation with Coconut Palm have the power to vote, in their sole discretion, all of the securities owned by the former limited partners of Coconut Palm. As of December 10, 2008, Coconut Palm beneficially owned approximately 52% of our common stock, assuming beneficial ownership is defined as including common stock ownership after exercising all warrants or options exercisable within 60 days of December 10, 2008. Therefore, Coconut Palm has the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders. Risks that may result from this ability are largely focused on the following variables: • the potential for making decisions which are based on a return on investment timetable which is based on the individual preferences and interests of the directors which may be different and in conflict with the more immediate horizon which may be expected in public equity markets at any point in time. • the potential for investing in operating strategies which reflect a higher or lower relationship of risk and returns on investment than other common equity investors of the Company. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. Over the last five years, we have not paid any dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future we will continue to retain any earnings for use in the operation of our business. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our shareholders may incur substantial dilution upon the exercising of outstanding warrants. Our shareholders may incur substantial dilution of their percentage of ownership interests if our warrant holders exercise their warrants. As of December 10, 2008, we have warrants outstanding to purchase (i) 5 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.00 per share, which expire on February 7, 2010 and (ii) 1 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $6.30 per share, which will expire on January 27, 2011. Upon exercise of the warrants, up to an additional 6,000,000 shares of our common stock would be outstanding. In addition, the warrants issued to our warrant holders contain certain anti-dilution provisions that if triggered, would cause a decrease in the exercise price of the warrants and would result in more shares of common stock being issuable upon exercise of the warrants. The warrants also provide for other customary anti-dilution adjustments to the exercise price in the event of stock splits, stock dividends, recapitalizations, reorganizations, reclassifications, distributions and business combinations, as well as adjustments in the event of cash dividends and other specified distributions. Adjustments to the warrants pursuant to these provisions may result in significant dilution to the ownership interests of our existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The anti-dilution provisions may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us. An increased number of shares of our common stock in the market may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Sales of large amounts of our common stock in the public market, exercise of the warrants held by our shareholders, completion of future purchases of companies in the lawn and pest control services sector in which shares of our common stock constitutes a part or all of the purchase price or completion of other sales of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock, even if our business is doing well. These potential sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Our stock is thinly traded. 13 Table of Contents While our stock trades on the American Stock Exchange, our stock is thinly traded and an investor may have difficulty in reselling his or her shares quickly. The low trading volume of our common stock is outside of our control, and we cannot guarantee that the trading volume will increase in the near future or that, even if it does increase in the future, it will be maintained. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his or her investment in us. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade in the future. 