ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various risks and uncertainties may affect the Company’s business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the Company’s other SEC filings may have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents The Company’s Independent Business, Save-A-Lot and Retail Food segments face intense competition. The grocery business is intensely competitive, and the recent and ongoing consolidation within the grocery industry is expected to result in increased competition, including from some competitors that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company. The nature and extent to which the Company’s competitors implement various pricing and promotional activities in response to increasing competition and the Company’s response to these competitive actions or failure to respond effectively, in a grocery industry characterized by relatively small gross margins, can adversely affect profitability and the Company’s operating results. The Company’s Independent Business segment is primarily wholesale distribution, which competes with traditional grocery wholesalers on the basis of price, quality, assortment, schedule and reliability of deliveries, service fees and distribution facility locations. The profitability of the Independent Business segment is dependent upon sufficient volume to support the Company’s operating infrastructure, which is dependent on the ability of the Company to attract new customers and retain existing customers, as well as the ability of the Company and its independent retail customers to distinguish themselves from competitors in the grocery channel. The Company’s Independent Business segment also faces competition from retailers that maintain or develop self-distribution systems as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise. The inability to attract new customers, the loss of existing customers to a competing wholesaler or due to closure, vertical integration, or industry consolidation, or the inability of the Company’s customers to compete successfully with other grocery retailers and non-traditional retailers may negatively impact the Company’s sales and gross margin. The Company’s Save-A-Lot and Retail Food segments face significant competition for customers, managers, employees, store sites and products from traditional grocery retailers, including regional and national chains and independent food store operators, and non-traditional retailers, such as supercenters, membership warehouse clubs, specialty supermarkets, drug stores, discount stores, dollar stores, convenience stores and restaurants. Competitors continue to increase their presence in the Company’s markets and the Company cannot predict how its customers will react to the entrance of these competitors, including certain non-traditional competitors that have entered the grocery retailing business. The Company’s ability to differentiate itself from its competitors and create an attractive value proposition for its customers is dependent upon a combination of price, quality, customer service, convenience, assortment, in-stock levels, brand perception, store location and conditions, in-store marketing and merchandising and promotional strategies. Any failure to positively differentiate the Company’s stores, as well as the inability to identify and respond to changes in economic conditions and trends in consumer preferences, could result in a loss of competitive position for the Company’s retail stores in the markets they serve. The Company may not be able to successfully identify and execute initiatives to increase its sales and profits. The Company continuously evaluates the changing business environments in which the Company operates and seeks out opportunities to improve performance and customer service through selected initiatives. The Company’s ability to execute on these initiatives is dependent, in part, upon its ability to continue to provide a high level of customer service, offer competitive products at low prices, maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency and offer services that provide value. The Company’s ability to grow will also depend on many factors, including the Company’s ability to attract new customers throughout the existing network of distribution centers, the availability of attractive store locations, the ability to negotiate acceptable lease and development terms, the ability to hire and train new personnel and political and economic conditions. Delays or failures in opening new locations or achieving lower than expected sales could adversely affect growth and profitability. Any initiatives that involve acquisitions or dispositions may entail various risks such as identifying suitable sellers or buyers, realizing acceptable rates of return on the investment or sale, negotiating acceptable terms and conditions and successfully integrating or separating operations and systems following the acquisition or disposition. There are no assurances that the Company will be able to identify the appropriate course of action, including which initiatives will be the most effective in improving the competitive position of the Company, or that the 15 Table of Contents Company will be able to respond appropriately to competitors’ initiatives. If the Company is unable to execute on its initiatives, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company has substantial indebtedness that could increase the Company’s borrowing costs and decrease the Company’s financial and operational flexibility. The Company has, and expects to continue to have, a substantial amount of debt. The Company’s substantial indebtedness may increase the Company’s borrowing costs and decrease the Company’s business flexibility, making it more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. For example, high levels of debt could: • require the Company to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other purposes; • limit the Company’s ability to obtain, or increase the cost at which the Company is able to obtain, financing in order to refinance existing indebtedness and fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; • limit the Company’s ability to adjust to changing business and market conditions and to respond to market opportunities, placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competitors that have less debt. Pursuant to the Company’s debt agreements, the Company has created a security interest in substantially all of its assets to secure certain debt instruments. The Company has also agreed to certain limitations on its ability to dispose of assets and is required to use the proceeds of such dispositions to pay down its debt, subject to certain exceptions. There are also various restrictive covenants and cross-default covenants in the Company’s debt instruments that could limit the Company’s operating and financial flexibility. If the Company fails to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity and the Company may not be able to repay the indebtedness that becomes due. A default under the Company’s debt instruments may also significantly affect the Company’s ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. The Company’s ability to comply with the covenants or to refinance the Company’s obligations with respect to the Company’s indebtedness will depend on the Company’s operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond the Company’s control. In particular, the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing through the capital markets may be adversely impacted by global economic conditions. Tightening of credit, low liquidity or volatility in the capital markets could result in diminished availability of credit and higher costs of borrowing, making it more difficult for the Company to obtain debt financing on favorable terms. These conditions and factors may also negatively impact the Company’s debt ratings, which may increase the cost of borrowing, adversely affect the Company’s ability to access one or more financial markets or result in a default under the Company’s debt instruments. Any of these outcomes may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Sustained or worsening economic conditions could adversely impact consumer spending, increase costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The vast majority of the Company’s store locations are located in the United States making its results highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and spending habits. In recent years, the U.S. economy has experienced economic recession, higher unemployment rates, higher energy costs, higher insurance and healthcare costs, a decline in the housing market, and greater restrictions on the availability of credit, all of which have contributed to suppressed consumer confidence and increased price competition. Consumer spending has declined as consumers trade down to a less expensive mix of products that often yield lower margins and seek out discounters for grocery items. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify and respond to changes and trends in 16 Table of Contents consumer spending and preferences and/or maintain the competitive position of its operations. Additionally, these economic factors along with higher interest rates, costs of labor and tax rates, and other changes in tax, healthcare and other laws and regulations, can also increase the Company’s cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s operating results. While economic conditions have recently shown signs of improvement and less volatility, there is continued uncertainty about the strength of the recovery. In addition, inflation continues to be unpredictable; food deflation could reduce sales growth and earnings, while food inflation, combined with reduced consumer spending, could reduce gross profit margins. If these consumer spending patterns continue or worsen, and the economy does not continue to improve or it weakens, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Failure to maintain satisfactory labor relations could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As of February 22, 2014, the Company is a party to 51 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 15,300 of its employees, of which 23 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 11,800 employees are scheduled to expire in fiscal 2015. In addition, during fiscal 2014, 20 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 8,200 employees were renegotiated. In fiscal 2014, 2 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 100 employees expired without their terms being renegotiated. Negotiations are expected to continue with the bargaining units representing the employees subject to those agreements. In future negotiations with labor unions, the Company expects that, among other issues, rising healthcare, pension and employee benefit and wage costs and operational flexibility will be important topics for negotiation. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate the terms of expiring or expired agreements in a manner acceptable to the Company. Therefore, potential increases in operating costs or work disruptions from labor disputes could disrupt the Company’s businesses and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Certain of the Company’s operations have employees who are non-union, and while the Company believes its employee relations are strong, there can be no assurance that these operations will not experience pressure from labor unions or become the target of campaigns to unionize. Increased healthcare, pension and other costs under the Company’s and multiemployer benefit plans could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company provides health benefits to many of its employees and the costs to provide such benefits continue to increase annually. The amount of any increase or decrease in the cost of Company-sponsored health plans will depend on a number of different factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, such as The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which has resulted in changes to the U.S. healthcare system. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act imposes new mandatory types of coverage and reporting and other requirements on Company-sponsored health plans, which may increase the Company’s health plan costs over time. The Company also sponsors defined pension, defined contribution pension, and other postretirement plans for substantially all employees not participating in multiemployer health and pension plans. The Company’s costs to provide such benefits continue to increase annually. The Company uses actuarial valuations to determine the Company’s benefit obligations for certain benefit plans, which require the use of significant estimates, including the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, mortality rates and the rates of increase in compensation and health care costs. Changes to these significant estimates could increase the cost of these plans, which could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the NAI Banner Sale, the Company divested its defined benefit pension plan associated with its Shaw’s banner and retained its largest defined benefit pension plan. The defined benefit pension plan retained by the Company is for pension obligations to current and former employees of the Company as well as some of its divested businesses. The Company and AB Acquisition also entered into a binding term sheet with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”) relating to issues regarding the effect of the NAI Banner Sale on certain SUPERVALU retirement plans. The binding term sheet provides, among other things, that the 17 Table of Contents Company will not pay any dividends to its stockholders at any time for the period beginning on January 9, 2013, and ending on the earliest of (i) March 21, 2018, (ii) the date on which the total of all contributions made to the SUPERVALU Retirement Plan on or after the closing date of the NAI Banner Sale is at least $450 and (iii) the date on which SUPERVALU’s unsecured credit rating is BB+ from Standard & Poor’s or Ba1 from Moody’s (such earliest date, the end of the “PBGC Protection Period”). SUPERVALU has also agreed to make certain contributions to the SUPERVALU Retirement Plan in excess of the minimum required contributions at or before the ends of fiscal years 2015—2017 (where such fiscal years end during the PBGC Protection Period), and AB Acquisition has agreed to provide a guarantee to the PBGC for such excess payments. The Company is in negotiations with the PBGC and AB Acquisition with respect to a settlement agreement based on the binding term sheet. The Company’s defined benefit pension plan was closed for eligibility and frozen for credited benefit service for the vast majority of participants effective December 2007. In December 2012, that plan was frozen as to credited service and earnings for the vast majority of participants, although vesting service may continue to accrue. Effective March 21, 2013, the plan was frozen for all participants as to credited service and earnings, although vesting service may continue to accrue. The projected benefit obligations of the Company sponsored plans exceed the fair value of those plans’ assets. Required contributions have increased in recent years due to a combination of lower pension discount rates and the effect of the Pension Protection Act of 2006. The SUPERVALU Retirement Plan remaining with the Company is frozen as to benefit service and earnings for all participants, and participants who were employed by the Company or NAI on March 21, 2013 became vested in their pension plan benefit under the Company’s largest retirement plan. Service at the Company (but not service at NAI) after that date will count toward eligibility for early retirement if applicable under the pension plan formula. As a result of the NAI Banner Sale and the retention of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan, the Company has significantly increased minimum pension contributions as a percentage of its cash flows from continuing operations. Also, since the number of employees of the continuing operations has decreased, certain administrative and other benefits costs may increase on a per employee level. Additionally, if the Company is unable to control healthcare benefits and pension costs, the Company may experience increased operating costs, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company participates in various multiemployer health and pension plans for a majority of its union-affiliated employees, and the Company is required to make contributions to these plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. The costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. The amount of any increase or decrease in the Company’s required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if the Company chooses to exit a market. Withdrawal liabilities could be material, and potential exposure to withdrawal liabilities may influence business decisions and could cause the Company to forgo business opportunities. Increases in the costs of benefits under these plans coupled with adverse developments in the stock and capital markets that have reduced the return on plan assets have caused most multiemployer pension plans in which the Company participates to be underfunded. Many of these plans have required rehabilitation plans or funding improvement plans, and the Company can give no assurances of the extent to which a rehabilitation plan or a funding improvement plan will improve the funded status of the plan. The Company expects that the unfunded liabilities of these plans will result in increased future payments by the Company and the other participating employers over the next few years. Underfunded multiemployer pension plans may, in certain situations, impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. The Company’s risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. A significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 Table of Contents The financial condition of these pension plans may also negatively impact the Company’s debt ratings, which may increase the cost of borrowing, adversely affect the Company’s ability to access one or more financial markets or result in a default under the Company’s debt instruments. Changes in the Company’s continuing relationships with NAI and Albertson’s LLC could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. In connection with the NAI Banner Sale, the Company entered into Transition Services Agreements with each of NAI and Albertson’s LLC to support the divested NAI Banners and the continuing operations of Albertson’s LLC, each with an initial term that expires September 21, 2015. The Transition Services Agreements may be renewed annually provided that notice of renewal is given at least 12 months prior to the expiration. NAI and Albertson’s LLC may also cancel services on 10 weeks’ notice at any of its stores or distribution centers for any reason, including closure, and the removal of stores or distribution centers would reduce the variable fee the Company receives under the Transition Services Agreements. NAI and Albertson’s LLC have and may continue to notify the Company of stores and distribution centers that are removed from the Transition Services Agreements. Continued reductions in the number of stores or distribution centers covered by the Transition Services Agreements, with or without reductions in the scope of services, could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. It is the Company’s understanding that NAI and Albertson’s LLC intend to continue to receive services from the Company under the Transition Services Agreements for at least the remainder of the initial term. For several reasons, including the recent announcement of a definitive agreement for the acquisition of Safeway Inc. by AB Acquisition LLC, the parent company to each of NAI and Albertson’s LLC, the Company cannot be certain as to the length or scope of services to be provided by the Company under the Transition Services Agreements. The Company also cannot be certain whether any such transaction would increase the number of stores or distribution centers that NAI and/or Albertson’s LLC would remove from the Transition Services Agreements or make it more likely that only one or both Transition Services Agreement would be extended beyond the initial term. This uncertainty creates challenges for the Company in managing its corporate resources and increases the risk that the Company will be required to provide the same scope of services under the Transition Services Agreements but for less revenue based on a lower store and distribution center count and/or termination of one Transition Services Agreement. The impact of the Transition Services Agreements on the Company’s results of operations depends on the revenue being received by the Company and the Company’s ability to manage the costs of providing the required level of services. Any decrease in the revenue received by the Company under the Transition Services Agreements could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, including if the Company is not able to manage its cost structure and overhead to appropriately correspond to the loss in revenue. The Company’s ability to continue to perform services under the Transition Services Agreements at the applicable service level will depend partly on its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Retaining such personnel may be more difficult in connection with an actual or perceived wind down of the Transition Services Agreements. A shortage of qualified employees who devote time to services under the Transition Services Agreements could increase the Company’s costs and decrease the Company’s ability to effectively serve its customers under the Transition Services Agreements. While the Company has limited its indemnification obligations for these services, the Company could face claims for disruptions or other impacts to the businesses of Albertson’s LLC and NAI. The Company also entered into an Operating and Supply Agreement with NAI under which the Company operates a warehouse/distribution center owned by NAI. The Company provides wholesale distribution of products to certain NAI banners and to certain of the Company’s independent retail customers from this warehouse/distribution center. This agreement may be terminated by either party on 24 months’ notice. Disruptions to the Company’s information technology systems, including cyber-attacks and security breaches, and the costs of maintaining secure and effective information technology systems could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The efficient operation of the Company’s businesses is highly dependent on computer hardware and software systems, including customized information technology systems. Information systems are vulnerable to security 19 Table of Contents breach by computer hackers and cyber terrorists. The Company relies on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on the Company’s information systems, and continues to invest in maintaining and upgrading the systems and applications to ensure risk is controlled. However, these measures and technology may not adequately prevent security breaches. In addition, the unavailability of the information systems or failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason, including any inability to access data stored in these systems, could disrupt the Company’s business and could result in decreased performance and increased overhead costs, causing the Company’s business and results of operations to suffer. Additionally, the Company’s businesses involve the receipt and storage of sensitive data, including personal information about the Company’s customers and employees and proprietary business information of the Company and its customers and vendors. The Company may also share information with vendors that assist the Company in conducting its business, as required by law, with the permission of the individual or as permitted under the Company’s privacy policy. As a merchant that accepts debit and credit cards for payment, the Company is subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCI DSS”), issued by the PCI Council. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to the Company’s security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. By accepting debit cards for payment, the Company is also subject to compliance with American National Standards Institute data encryption standards, and payment network security operating guidelines. The Company currently complies with PCI DSS version 2.0; however, the Company will be required to comply with the new PCI DSS version 3.0 by January 1, 2015. Despite compliance with these standards and the utilization of other information security measures, the Company cannot be certain that all of its IT systems or the IT systems of its vendors are or will be able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks or security breaches from known malware, malware that may be developed in the future or otherwise. Cyber-attacks are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated and difficult to detect, and therefore, the Company may be unable to anticipate these attacks or implement adequate preventive measures. Additionally, unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to the Company’s or a vendor’s systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deception involving the Company’s employees or vendors. To the extent that any attack or breach results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, the Company may be adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations, stockholders and others and by costly inquiries or enforcement actions on the part of regulatory authorities. The Company’s operations could also be significantly disrupted by these claims, as well as by the need to spend significant time and expense to fix or replace its systems. The Company could also lose credibility with its customers and suffer damage to its reputation and future sales. In addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards, including PCI DSS version 3.0, and developing, maintaining and upgrading technology systems to address future advances in technology, could be significant and the Company could experience problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems. Customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to shop in stores and online and provide feedback and public commentary on their shopping experience, including prices. Multichannel retailing is rapidly evolving. If the Company does not keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments and technology investments by its competitors, the Company’s ability to compete and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if the customer-facing technology systems do not reliably function as designed, the Company may experience a loss of customer confidence or data security breaches or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, which, if significant, could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and results of operations. The Company’s businesses are subject to laws and governmental regulations that could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and administrative practices. These laws require the Company to comply with numerous provisions regulating health and sanitation 20 Table of Contents standards, food safety, marketing of natural or organically produced food, facilities, equal employment opportunity, public accessibility, employee benefits, wages and hours worked and licensing for the sale of food, drugs and alcoholic beverages, among others. The Company’s inability to timely obtain permits, comply with government regulations or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance with governmental regulations may adversely impact the Company’s business operations and prospects for future growth and its ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, the Company cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can the Company determine the effect that additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on the Company’s future business. They may, however, impose additional requirements or restrictions on the products the Company sells, require that the Company recall or discontinue sale of certain products, make substantial changes to the Company’s facilities or operations, or otherwise result in changes to the manner in which the Company operates its businesses. Any or all of such requirements may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s supplier base includes domestic and foreign suppliers, and the Company has a limited number of licensed stores in foreign countries. Accordingly, political or financial instability in these foreign countries, changes in U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affecting the importation and taxation of goods, including duties, tariffs and quotas, or changes in the enforcement of those laws and regulations could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company is required to comply with laws and regulations governing ethical, anti-bribery and similar business practices. The Company may choose to pursue further expansion into international markets. If the Company seeks and attains a larger international footprint, it would be required to comply with additional foreign laws and regulations. Any failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Food and drug safety issues and related unfavorable publicity could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. There is increasing governmental scrutiny and public awareness regarding food and drug safety. The Company may be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the Company’s food and drug products. Any events that give rise to actual or potential food contamination, drug contamination or food-borne illness or injury may result in product liability claims, penalties and enforcement actions from government agencies and a loss of consumer confidence. In addition, adverse publicity about these types of concerns whether valid or not, may discourage consumers from buying the Company’s products or cause production and delivery disruptions, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. It may be necessary for the Company to recall unsafe, contaminated or defective products. Recall costs and product liability claims can be material. While the Company generally seeks contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from its suppliers, it might not be able to recover these significant costs from its suppliers. The Company’s businesses may become subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s businesses are subject to the risk of legal proceedings by employees, unions, consumers, customers, suppliers, stockholders, governmental agencies or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease consumer confidence in the Company’s businesses, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether the Company is ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See also “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” below. 21 Table of Contents Severe weather and natural disasters may harm the Company’s business. Severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, extended winter storms or tornadoes, as well as other natural disasters, in areas in which the Company has stores or distribution facilities or from which the Company obtains products may cause physical damage to the Company’s properties, closure of one or more of the Company’s stores or distribution facilities, lack of an adequate work force in a market, temporary disruption in the supply of products, disruption in the transport of goods, delays in the delivery of goods to the Company’s distribution centers or stores, a reduction in customer volume and a reduction in the availability of products in the Company’s stores. In addition, adverse climate conditions and adverse weather patterns, such as drought or flood, that impact growing conditions and the quantity and quality of crops yielded by food producers may adversely affect the availability or cost of certain products within the grocery supply chain. Any of these factors may disrupt the Company’s businesses and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Disruption to the supply chain and distribution network could have an adverse impact on the Company’s sales and operating results. The Company’s sales and operating results could be adversely impacted if the Company is not able to provide goods to the Company’s stores and its customers’ stores in a timely and cost-effective manner, to maintain continued supply, pricing or access to new products or to identify alternative sources of merchandise without delay and at similar cost and quality levels. Factors that may disrupt the Company’s ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply chain and distribution network include weather, product recalls, crop conditions, regulatory actions, political or financial instability for suppliers, transportation interruptions, labor supply or stoppages or vendor defaults or disputes, as well as other risk factors mentioned, any of which could also have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales and operating results. Disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure that lead to delays or interruptions of deliveries could also negatively affect the Company’s business. Changes in the military commissary system or decreases in governmental funding could negatively impact the sales and operating performance of the Company’s military business. The Company’s Independent Business segment sells and distributes grocery products to military commissaries and exchanges in the United States. The Company’s military business faces competition from large national and regional food distributors as well as smaller food distributors. Due to the narrow margins in the military food distribution industry, it is of critical importance for distributors to achieve economies of scale. Any material changes in the commissary system, the level of governmental funding to the Defense Commissary Agency (“DeCA”), military staffing levels, or the locations of bases may have a corresponding impact on the sales and operating performance of the Company’s military business. Mandated reductions in government expenditures, including those imposed as a result of sequestration, may impact the level of funding to the DeCA and could have a material impact on the Company’s operations. The Company’s insurance and self-insurance programs may not be adequate to cover future claims. The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, director and officer liability, property risk, cyber and privacy risks and employee healthcare benefits. The Company estimates the liabilities associated with the risks retained by the Company, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic and severity factors and other actuarial assumptions which, by their nature, are subject to a degree of variability. Any actuarial projection of losses concerning workers’ compensation and general and automobile liability is subject to a degree of variability. Among the causes of this variability are unpredictable external factors affecting future inflation rates, discount rates, litigation trends, legal interpretations, benefit level changes and actual claim settlement patterns. Some of the many sources of uncertainty in the Company’s reserve estimates include changes in benefit levels, medical fee schedules, medical utilization guidelines, vocation rehabilitation and apportionment. If the number or severity of claims for which the Company is self-insured increases, or the Company is required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than the Company’s original assessments, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Volatility in fuel and energy costs and risk associated with compressed the natural gas pilot program could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s operations are dependent on the availability of a significant amount of energy and fuel to store and transport products. Energy and fuel costs are influenced by international, political and economic circumstances and have experienced volatility over time. To reduce the impact of volatile fuel and energy costs, the Company has entered into contracts to purchase fuel, electricity and natural gas at fixed prices to satisfy a portion of its expected needs. Additionally, the Company has invested in 35 semitrailer trucks powered by compressed natural gas. In the recent past, the price of natural gas has been volatile, and this volatility may continue. Additionally, having compressed natural gas equipment and a fueling station entails inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in flows of natural gas, fires, explosions and other damages, and could subject the Company to additional regulation. The Company is closely monitoring this pilot program and may expand it to additional distribution centers in the future. Volatility in fuel and energy costs that exceeds offsetting contractual arrangements, or failure to recognize the anticipated benefits from the compressed natural gas pilot program, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Impairment charges for goodwill or other intangible assets may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is required to annually test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives to determine if impairment has occurred. Additionally, interim reviews are performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, the Company is required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires the Company to make significant estimates about its weighted average cost of capital, future revenue, profitability, cash flows, fair value of assets and liabilities, as well as other assumptions. These estimates may be affected by significant variability, including potential changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations and market strategies, changes in competition or changes in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of the Company’s future performance, may affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in an impairment charge. The Company cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company’s stock price is subject to market and other conditions and may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors. These factors, some of which may be beyond the Company’s control, include the perceived prospects and actual operating results of the Company’s business; changes in estimates of the Company’s operating results by analysts, investors or the Company; the Company’s actual operating results relative to such estimates or expectations; actions or announcements by the Company or its competitors; litigation and judicial decisions; legislative or regulatory actions; and changes in general economic or market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations could reduce the market price of the Company’s common stock for reasons unrelated to the Company’s operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 