ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various risks and uncertainties may affect the Company’s business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the Company’s other SEC filings may have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Competition in the Retail Food, Save-A-Lot and Independent Business segments The grocery business is intensely competitive. The Company’s Retail Food and Save-A-Lot segments face competition for customers, employees, store sites and products from traditional grocery retailers, including regional and national chains and independent food store operators, and non-traditional retailers, such as supercenters, membership warehouse clubs, specialty supermarkets, drug stores, discount stores, dollar stores, convenience stores and restaurants. The Company’s ability to differentiate itself from its competitors and create an attractive value proposition for its customers is dependent upon a combination of price, quality, assortment, brand perception, store location, in-store marketing and merchandising and promotional strategies. The grocery industry is also characterized by relatively small gross margins, and the nature and extent to which the Company’s competitors implement various pricing and promotional activities in response to increasing competition and the Company’s response to these competitive actions, can adversely affect profitability. The Company’s Independent Business segment is primarily wholesale distribution, which competes with traditional grocery wholesalers on the basis of price, quality, assortment, schedule and reliability of deliveries, service fees and distribution facility locations. The profitability of the Independent Business segment is dependent upon sufficient volume to support the Company’s operating infrastructure, and the loss of customers to a competing wholesaler, closure or vertical integration may negatively impact the Company’s sales and gross margin. Execution of initiatives Following the Company’s sale of New Albertsons, the Company is positioned as a leading food wholesaler, the largest hard discount grocery chain by store count in the United States and a traditional food retailer with five regional retail banners. The Company is focused on operating under a decentralized model with a lower overall cost structure. By doing so, the Company expects to have the ability to lower pricing, as appropriate, across its three business segments. In addition, the Company will continue to focus on retailing and affiliating new accounts within its Independent Business segment, as well as expanding its Save-A-Lot format through both corporate and licensed locations. If the Company is unable to execute on these initiatives, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Substantial indebtedness The Company has, and expects to continue to have, a substantial amount of debt. The Company’s substantial indebtedness may increase the Company’s borrowing costs and decrease the Company’s business flexibility, making it more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. For example, high levels of debt could: • require the Company to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other purposes; • limit the Company’s ability to obtain, or increase the cost at which the Company is able to obtain financing in order to refinance existing indebtedness and fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; and • limit the Company’s ability to adjust to changing business and market conditions placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competitors that have less debt. 11 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Company’s debt agreements, the Company has created a security interest in substantially all of its assets to secure its debt. Because of these security interests, the Company has agreed to certain limitations on its ability to dispose of assets or is otherwise required to use a portion of the proceeds of such dispositions to pay down its debt. There are also various restrictive covenants and cross-default covenants in the Company’s debt instruments. If the Company fails to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity and the Company may not be able to repay the indebtedness that becomes due. A default under the Company’s debt instruments may also significantly affect the Company’s ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. The Company’s ability to comply with the covenants or to refinance the Company’s obligations with respect to the Company’s indebtedness will depend on the Company’s operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond the Company’s control. In particular, the uncertainties of the global economy and capital markets may impact the Company’s ability to obtain debt financing. These conditions and factors may also negatively impact the Company’s debt ratings, which may increase the cost of borrowing, adversely affect the Company’s ability to access one or more financial markets or result in a default under the Company’s debt instruments. Any of these outcomes may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Current economic conditions All of the Company’s store locations are located in the United States making its results highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and spending habits. The U.S. economy has experienced economic volatility in recent years due to uncertainties related to higher unemployment rates, energy costs, a decline in the housing market, and limited availability of credit, all of which have contributed to suppressed consumer confidence. Consumer spending has declined as consumers trade down to a less expensive mix of products and seek out discounters for grocery items. In addition, inflation continues to be unpredictable; food deflation could reduce sales growth and earnings, while food inflation, combined with reduced consumer spending, could reduce gross profit margins. If these consumer spending patterns continue or worsen, along with an ongoing soft economy, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Labor relations As of February 23, 2013, the Company is a party to 52 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 15,000 of its employees, of which 22 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 5,600 employees are scheduled to expire in fiscal 2014. In addition, during fiscal 2013, four collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 135 employees expired without their terms being renegotiated. Negotiations are expected to continue with the bargaining units representing the employees subject to those agreements. In future negotiations with labor unions, the Company expects that, among other issues, rising healthcare, pension and employee benefit costs will be important topics for negotiation. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate the terms of expiring or expired agreements in a manner acceptable to the Company. Therefore, potential work disruptions from labor disputes could disrupt the Company’s businesses and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Costs of employee benefits The Company provides health benefits and sponsors defined pension, defined contribution pension, and other postretirement plans for substantially all employees not participating in multiemployer health and pension plans. The Company’s costs to provide such benefits continue to increase annually. The Company uses actuarial valuations to determine the Company’s benefit obligations for certain benefit plans, which require the use of significant estimates, including the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, mortality rates, and the rates of increase in compensation and health care costs. Changes to these significant estimates could increase the cost of these plans, which could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the NAI Banner Sale, the Company divested its defined benefit pension plan associated with its Shaw’s banner and retained its largest defined pension benefit plan. The defined benefit pension plan retained by the Company is for pension obligations to current and former employees of the Company as well as some of its divested businesses. The Company and AB Acquisition also entered into a binding term sheet with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”) relating to issues regarding the effect of the NAI Banner Sale on certain SUPERVALU retirement plans. The binding term sheet provides, among other things, that the Company will not pay any dividends to its stockholders at any time for the period beginning on January 9, 2013 and ending on the earliest of (i) March 21, 2018, (ii) the date on which the total of all contributions made to the SUPERVALU Retirement Plan that were made to the SUPERVALU Retirement Plan on or after the closing date of the NAI Banner Sale is at least $450 and (iii) the date on which SUPERVALU’s unsecured credit rating is BB+ from Standard & Poor’s or Ba1 from Moody’s (such earliest date, the end of the “PBGC Protection Period”). SUPERVALU has also agreed to make certain contributions to the SUPERVALU Retirement Plan in excess of the minimum required contributions at or before the ends of fiscal years 2015—2017 (where such fiscal years end during the PBGC Protection Period), and AB Acquisition has agreed to provide a guarantee to the PBGC for such excess payments. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s defined benefit pension plan is closed for eligibility and frozen for credited benefit service for the vast majority of participants effective December 2007. In December 2012, that plan was frozen as to credited service and earnings for the vast majority of participants, although vesting service may continue to accrue. The defined benefit pension plan associated with the Shaw’s banner, which was divested by the Company as part of the NAI Banner Sale, covers a group of employees associated with that banner whose employment terms are governed by a collective bargaining agreement and is not frozen. The projected benefit obligations of the Company sponsored plans exceed the fair value of those plans’ assets. Required contributions have increased in recent years due to a combination of lower pension discount rates, the effect of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and lower actual return on plan assets resulting from the significant decline in financial markets during fiscal 2008 and 2009. The SUPERVALU Retirement Plan remaining with the Company is frozen as to benefit service and earnings for all participants, and participants who were employed by Company or New Albertsons on March 21, 2013 became vested in their pension plan benefit under the Company’s largest retirement plan. Service at the Company (but not service at NAI) after that date will count toward eligibility for early retirement if applicable under the pension plan formula. As a result of the NAI Banner Sale and the retention of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan, the Company has a significantly increased minimum pension contributions as a percentage of its cash flows from continuing operations. Also, since the number of employees of the continuing operations has decreased, certain administrative and other benefits costs may increase on a per employee level. Additionally, if the Company is unable to control healthcare benefits and pension costs, the Company may experience increased operating costs, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company participates in various multiemployer health and pension plans for a majority of its union-affiliated employees, and the Company is required to make contributions to these plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. The costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. The amount of any increase or decrease in the Company’s required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if the Company chooses to exit a market. Increases in the costs of benefits under these plans coupled with adverse developments in the stock and capital markets that have reduced the return on plan assets have caused most multiemployer pension plans in which the Company participates to be underfunded. The unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by the Company and the other participating employers. Underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. The Company’s risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. A significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Governmental regulations The Company’s businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and administrative practices. These laws require the Company to comply with numerous provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, equal employment opportunity, employee benefits, and minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food, drugs and alcoholic beverages. The Company’s inability to timely obtain permits, comply with government regulations or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance with governmental regulations may adversely impact the Company’s business operations and prospects for future growth and its ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, the Company cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can the Company determine the effect that additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on the Company’s future business. They may, however, impose additional requirements or restrictions on the products the Company sells or manner in which the Company operates its businesses. Any or all of such requirements may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Food and drug safety concerns and related unfavorable publicity There is increasing governmental scrutiny and public awareness regarding food and drug safety. The Company may be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the Company’s food and drug products. Any events that give rise to actual or potential food contamination, drug contamination or food-borne illness may result in product liability claims and a loss of consumer confidence. In addition, adverse publicity about these types of concerns whether valid or not, may discourage consumers from buying the Company’s products or cause production and delivery disruptions, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Insurance claims The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, property insurance and employee healthcare benefits. The Company estimates the liabilities associated with the risks retained by the Company, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic and severity factors and other actuarial assumptions which, by their nature, are subject to a degree of variability. Any actuarial projection of losses 13 Table of Contents concerning workers’ compensation and general and automobile liability is subject to a degree of variability. Among the causes of this variability are unpredictable external factors affecting future inflation rates, discount rates, litigation trends, legal interpretations, benefit level changes and actual claim settlement patterns. Some of the many sources of uncertainty in the Company’s reserve estimates include changes in benefit levels, medical fee schedules, medical utilization guidelines, vocation rehabilitation and apportionment. If the number or severity of claims for which the Company’s self-insured increases, or the Company is required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than the Company’s original assessments, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The impact of the Affordable Care Act on the Company’s health plan program may increase health plan costs. Legal Proceedings The Company’s businesses are subject to the risk of legal proceedings by employees, consumers, suppliers, stockholders, governmental agencies or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease consumer confidence in the Company’s businesses, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether the Company is ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Information technology systems The efficient operation of the Company’s businesses is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. Information systems are vulnerable to security breach by computer hackers and cyber terrorists. The Company relies on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on the Company’s information systems, and continues to invest in maintaining and upgrading the systems and applications to ensure risk is controlled. However, these measures and technology may not adequately prevent security breaches. In addition, the unavailability of the information systems or failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt the Company’s business and could result in decreased performance and increased overhead costs, causing the Company’s business and results of operations to suffer. Additionally, the Company’s businesses involve the receipt and storage of personal information about the Company’s customers. Data theft, information espionage or other criminal activity directed at the grocery or drug store industry, the transportation industry, or computer or communications systems may adversely affect the Company’s businesses by causing the Company to implement costly security measures in recognition of actual or potential threats, by requiring the Company to expend significant time and resources developing, maintaining or upgrading technology systems and by causing the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages. If the Company experiences a data security breach, it could be exposed to governmental enforcement actions and private litigation. The Company may also lose credibility with its customers, resulting in lost future sales. Weather and natural disasters Severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, earthquakes or tornadoes, as well as other natural disasters, in areas in which the Company has stores or distribution facilities or from which the Company obtains products may cause physical damage to the Company’s properties, closure of one or more of the Company’s stores or distribution facilities, lack of an adequate work force in a market, temporary disruption in the supply of products, disruption in the transport of goods, delays in the delivery of goods to the Company’s distribution centers or stores and a reduction in the availability of products in the Company’s stores. In addition, adverse climate conditions and adverse weather patterns, such as drought or flood, that impact growing conditions and the quantity and quality of crops yielded by food producers may adversely affect the availability or cost of certain products within the grocery supply chain. Any of these factors may disrupt the Company’s businesses and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Impairment charges for goodwill or other intangible assets The Company is required to annually test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives to determine if impairment has occurred. Additionally, interim reviews are performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, the Company is required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires the Company to make significant estimates about its weighted average cost of capital, future revenue, profitability, cash flows, fair value of assets and liabilities, as well as other assumptions. These estimates may be affected by significant variability, including potential changes in economic, industry or market 14 Table of Contents conditions, changes in business operations, changes in competition or changes in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of the Company’s future performance, may affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in an impairment charge. The Company cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Changes in accounting standards Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“accounting standards”) and interpretations by various governing bodies, including the SEC, for many aspects of the Company’s business, such as accounting for insurance and self-insurance, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, store closures, leases, income taxes and stock-based compensation, are complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation may significantly change or add volatility to the Company’s reported earnings without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. As a result, changes in accounting standards may materially impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Effect of the NAI Banner Sale on the Company As a result of the NAI Banner Sale, significant assets and personnel were transferred to AB Acquisition. Certain of these assets and personnel had been used by the Company across the enterprise. To the extent that the Company is not able to restructure quickly and efficiently for the Company to operate without those assets and personnel, it could result in disruptions to the Company’s current plans, operations and business relationships. Additionally, the Company has made significant changes to its senior management team and may make additional changes which could cause disruption as those new leaders transition into their roles. The Company will also have ongoing Transition Services Agreements with each of NAI and Albertson’s LLC to support the divested NAI Banners and the continuing operations of Albertson’s LLC, each with an initial term of two and one-half years. The Company’s ability to effectively manage its cost structure may be impacted by ongoing obligations under the Transition Services Agreements. The process of implementing the NAI Banner Sale and the effects of the Tender Offer may be disruptive to the Company’s business operations, may distract the Company’s management team from their day-to-day responsibilities and may make it more difficult to retain employees. Any of these risks or uncertainties could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 