ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various risks and uncertainties may affect the Company’s business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the Company’s other SEC filings may have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Current economic conditions The global economy and financial markets have experienced volatility in recent years due to uncertainties related to energy costs, availability of credit, difficulties in the banking and financial sectors, the decline in the housing market, falling consumer confidence and rising unemployment rates. These factors have all contributed to the decline in consumer spending and to consumers trading down to a less expensive mix of products or to consumers trading down to discounters for grocery items. In addition, in fiscal 2011, the Company experienced low levels of inflation. In this uncertain economy, it is difficult to forecast whether fiscal 2012 will be a period of inflation or deflation. Food deflation could reduce sales growth and earnings, while food inflation, combined with reduced consumer spending, could reduce gross profit margins. If these consumer spending patterns continue or worsen, along with an ongoing soft economy, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Execution of initiatives The Company is positioned in the retail food industry as the only traditional food retailer with multiple formats and ownership models that can be used to address differing customer needs across the United States. Management believes that this diversity of go-to-market options differentiates the Company and is part of its vision of becoming “America’s Neighborhood Grocer.” The Company has launched certain business transformation initiatives to achieve this vision of enhanced performance through greater focus on the customer, driving increased sales and reducing its overall cost structure. The Company plans to increase the number of hard-discount stores and to reinvest in its existing store base through remodels and merchandising initiatives tailored to the unique needs of each particular store’s neighborhood. If the Company is unable to execute on these initiatives, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Competition in the Retail food and Supply chain services businesses The Company’s Retail food business faces competition for customers, employees, store sites, products and in other important areas from traditional grocery retailers, including regional and national chains and independent 10 Table of Contents food store operators, and non-traditional retailers, such as supercenters, membership warehouse clubs, specialty supermarkets, drug stores, discount stores, dollar stores, convenience stores and restaurants. The Company’s ability to attract customers in this business is dependent, in large part, upon a combination of price, quality, assortment, brand recognition, store location, in-store marketing and merchandising, promotional strategies and continued growth into new markets. In addition, the nature and extent to which our competitors implement various pricing and promotional activities in response to increasing competition and the Company’s response to these competitive actions, can adversely affect profitability. The Company’s Supply chain services business is primarily wholesale distribution, which competes with traditional grocery wholesalers on the basis of price, quality, assortment, schedule and reliability of deliveries, service fees and distribution facility locations. Competitive pressures on the Company’s Retail food and Supply chain services businesses may cause the Company to experience: (i) reductions in the prices at which the Company is able to sell products at its retail locations or to its independent retail customers, (ii) decreases in sales volume due to increased difficulty in selling the Company’s products and (iii) difficulty in attracting and retaining customers. Any of these outcomes may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Food and drug safety concerns and related unfavorable publicity There is increasing governmental scrutiny and public awareness regarding food and drug safety. The Company may be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the Company’s food and drug products. Any events that give rise to actual or potential food contamination, drug contamination or food-borne illness may result in product liability claims and a loss of consumer confidence. In addition, adverse publicity about these types of concerns whether valid or not, may discourage consumers from buying the Company’s products or cause production and delivery disruptions, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Substantial indebtedness The Company has, and expects to continue to have, a substantial amount of debt. The Company’s substantial indebtedness may increase the Company’s borrowing costs and decrease the Company’s business flexibility, making it more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. For example, high levels of debt could: n require the Company to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other purposes; n limit the Company’s ability to obtain, or increase the cost at which the Company is able to obtain financing in order to refinance existing indebtedness and fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; and n limit the Company’s ability to adjust to changing business and market conditions placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competitors that have less debt. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in the Company’s debt instruments. If the Company fails to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity and the Company may not be able to repay the indebtedness that becomes due. A default under the Company’s debt instruments may also significantly affect the Company’s ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. The Company’s ability to comply with the covenants or to refinance the Company’s obligations with respect to the Company’s indebtedness will depend on the Company’s operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond the Company’s control. These conditions and factors may also negatively impact the Company’s debt ratings, which may increase the cost of borrowing, adversely affect the Company’s ability to access one or more financial markets or result in a default under the Company’s debt instruments. Any of these outcomes may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Labor unions As of February 26, 2011, the Company is a party to 238 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 88,000 of its employees, of which 59 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 26,000 employees are scheduled to expire in fiscal 2012. These expiring agreements cover approximately 30 percent of the Company’s union-affiliated employees. In addition, during fiscal 2011, 37 collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 2,000 employees expired without their terms being renegotiated. Negotiations are expected to continue with the bargaining units representing the employees subject to those agreements. In future negotiations with labor unions, the Company expects that, among other issues, rising healthcare, pension and employee benefit costs will be important topics for negotiation. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate the terms of expiring or expired agreements in a manner acceptable to the Company. Therefore, potential work disruptions from labor disputes may disrupt the Company’s businesses and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Costs of employee benefits The Company provides health benefits and sponsors defined pension and other post-retirement plans for substantially all employees not participating in multi-employer health and pension plans. The Company’s costs to provide such benefits continue to increase annually and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system. The Company is not able at this time to determine the impact that healthcare reform could have on the Company-sponsored medical plans. In addition, the Company participates in various multi-employer health and pension plans for a majority of its union-affiliated employees, and the Company is required to make contributions to these plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. The costs of providing benefits through such plans have escalated rapidly in recent years. The amount of any increase or decrease in the Company’s required contributions to these multi-employer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if the Company chooses to exit a market. Increases in the costs of benefits under these plans coupled with adverse stock market developments that have reduced the return on plan assets have caused some multi-employer plans in which the Company participates to be underfunded. The unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by the Company and the other participating employers. The Company’s risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company (“A&P”) filed for bankruptcy on December 12, 2010, and is a participant in five multi-employer plans with the Company. Based on the information available to the Company the impact of the A&P bankruptcy on the Company’s future payments or unfunded liabilities is not currently probable or reasonably estimable. If the Company is unable to control healthcare and pension costs, the Company may experience increased operating costs, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Governmental regulations The Company’s businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and administrative practices. These laws require the Company to comply with numerous provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, equal employment opportunity, minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food, drugs and alcoholic beverages. The Company’s inability to timely obtain permits, comply with government regulations or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance with governmental regulations may adversely impact the Company’s business operations and prospects for future growth and its ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, the Company cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can the Company determine the effect that additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on the Company’s future business. They may, however, impose additional requirements or restrictions on the products the 12 Table of Contents Company sells or manner in which the Company operates its businesses. Any or all of such requirements may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Insurance claims The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, property insurance and employee healthcare benefits. The Company estimates the liabilities associated with the risks retained by the Company, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic and severity factors and other actuarial assumptions which, by their nature, are subject to a degree of variability. Any actuarial projection of losses concerning workers’ compensation and general and automobile liability is subject to a degree of variability. Among the causes of this variability are unpredictable external factors affecting future inflation rates, discount rates, litigation trends, legal interpretations, benefit level changes and actual claim settlement patterns. Some of the many sources of uncertainty in the Company’s reserve estimates include changes in benefit levels, medical fee schedules, medical utilization guidelines, vocation rehabilitation and apportionment. If the number or severity of claims for which the Company is self-insured increases, or the Company is required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than the Company’s original assessments, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Litigation The Company’s businesses are subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, stockholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease consumer confidence in the Company’s businesses, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether the Company is ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Information technology systems The Company has complex information technology systems that are important to the operation of its businesses. The Company may encounter difficulties in developing new systems or maintaining and upgrading existing systems. Such difficulties may lead to significant expenses or losses due to disruption in business operations and, as a result, may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, data theft, information espionage or other criminal activity directed at the grocery or drug store industry, the transportation industry, or computer or communications systems may adversely affect the Company’s businesses by causing the Company to implement costly security measures in recognition of actual or potential threats, by requiring the Company to expend significant time and expense developing, maintaining or upgrading its information technology systems and by causing the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages. Such activities may also adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations by reducing consumer confidence in the marketplace and by modifying consumer spending habits. Weather and natural disasters Severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, earthquakes or tornadoes, as well as other natural disasters, in areas in which the Company has stores or distribution facilities or from which the Company obtains products may cause physical damage to the Company’s properties, closure of one or more of the Company’s stores or distribution facilities, lack of an adequate work force in a market, temporary disruption in the supply of products, disruption in the transport of goods, delays in the delivery of goods to the Company’s distribution centers or stores and a reduction in the availability of products in the Company’s stores. In addition, adverse climate conditions and adverse weather patterns, such as drought or flood, that impact growing conditions and 13 Table of Contents the quantity and quality of crops yielded by food producers may adversely affect the availability or cost of certain products within the grocery supply chain. Any of these factors may disrupt the Company’s businesses and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards Accounting principles generally accepted in the Unites States of America (“accounting standards”) and interpretations by various governing bodies, including the SEC, for many aspects of the Company’s business, such as accounting for insurance and self-insurance, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, store closures, leases, income taxes and stock-based compensation, are complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation may significantly change or add significant volatility to the Company’s reported earnings without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. As a result, changes in accounting standards may materially impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Impairment charges for goodwill or other intangible assets The Company is required to annually test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, the Company is required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires the Company to make significant estimates about its future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including potential changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations, changes in competition or changes in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of the Company’s future performance, may affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in an impairment charge. The Company cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 