Item 1A. Risk Factors.* Our industry is intensely competitive and the competition we encounter may have a negative impact on the prices we may charge for our products, our revenues and profitability. The supermarket business is highly competitive and is characterized by high inventory turnover and narrow profit margins. Results of operations are therefore sensitive to, and may be materially adversely impacted by, among other things, competitive pricing and promotional programs and competitor store openings. We compete with national and regional supermarkets, club stores, supercenters, drug stores, convenience stores, dollar stores, discount merchandisers and other local retailers in the market areas we serve. Competition with these outlets is based on price, store location, advertising and promotion, product mix, quality and service. Some of these competitors may have greater financial resources, lower merchandise acquisition cost and lower operating expenses than we do, and we may be unable to compete successfully in the future. We are concentrated in the New York – New Jersey and Philadelphia metropolitan areas. We are vulnerable to economic downturns in that region, in addition to those that may affect the country as a whole, as well as natural and other catastrophic events that may impact that region. Economic conditions such as interest rates, energy costs and unemployment rates may adversely affect our sales which may lead to higher losses, and may also adversely affect our future growth and expansion. Further, since we are concentrated in densely populated metropolitan areas, opportunities for future store expansion may be limited, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our renovation and expansion plans may not be successful, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. A key to our business strategy has been, and will continue to be, the renovation and expansion of total selling square footage. In fiscal 2006, we expect to invest approximately $70 million for capital expenditures on store projects and equipment purchases and plan to complete 16 store renovations. We expect cash flows from operations, supplemented by the unused borrowing capacity under our bank credit facility and the availability of capital lease financing, will be sufficient to fund our capital renovation and expansion programs; however, in the event that cash flows from operations continue to decrease, we may decide to limit our future capital expenditure program. In addition, the greater financial resources of some of our competitors for real estate sites could adversely affect our ability to open new stores. The inability to renovate our existing stores, add new stores or increase the selling area of existing stores could adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our ability to compete successfully. * Unless otherwise indicated, all information in Item 1A is given as of January 28, 2006. 8 We rely on C&S for supply of a majority of our products. Pursuant to the terms of a long-term supply agreement, we rely on C&S for supply of substantially all of the products we sell other than direct store deliveries, general merchandise, pharmacy, health and beauty care and tobacco products. During fiscal 2005, the products supplied from C&S accounted for approximately 62% of all of our supermarket inventory purchases. Although we have not experienced difficulty in the supply of these products to date, supply interruptions by C&S may occur in the future. Any significant interruption in this supply stream, either as a result of disruptions at C&S or if the C&S agreement were terminated for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are affected by increasing labor and benefit and other operating costs and a competitive labor market and are subject to the risk of unionized labor disruptions. The majority of our operating costs is attributed to associate expenses and, therefore, our financial performance is greatly influenced by increasing wage and benefit costs, a competitive labor market and the risk of labor disruption of our highly unionized workforce. Additionally, our profitability is particularly sensitive to the cost of oil. Oil prices directly affect our product transportation costs, as well as our utility and petroleum-based supply costs (e.g., plastic bags). We face the risk of being held liable for environmental damages that may occur. Our operations subject us to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous materials and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Under some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, also known as CERCLA or the Superfund law, and similar state statues, responsibility for the entire cost of cleanup of a contaminated site can be imposed upon any current or former site owners or operators, or upon any party who sent waste to the site, regardless of the lawfulness of the original activities that lead to the contamination. From time to time we have been named as one of many potentially responsible parties at Superfund sites, although our share of liability has typically been de minimis. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements. However, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, new laws or discoveries of unknown conditions may require expenditures that may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We could be affected if consumers lose confidence in the food supply chain. We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the food supply chain. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, could discourage consumers from buying our products. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in a loss of consumer confidence and product liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations. We currently have, and expect to continue to have, a significant amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial health. As of January 28, 2006, we had $605.5 million in debt and capital lease obligations outstanding. This substantial indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is used to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; place ourselves at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Additionally, interest expense could be adversely affected by changes in the interest rate environment, fluctuations in the amount of outstanding debt, and any other factor that results in an increase in debt. We participate in various multi-employer pension plans for substantially all employees represented by unions. We are required to make contributions to these plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. Pension expense for these plans is recognized as contributions are funded. Benefits generally are based on a fixed amount for each year of service. We contributed $22.5 million, $22.8 million and $20.8 million to these funds in fiscal 2005, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, respectively. Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe a number of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. As a result, we expect that contributions to these plans may increase. Additionally, the benefit levels and related items will be issues in the negotiation of our collective bargaining agreements. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations and the actual return held in the plans, among other factors. 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 