ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with your evaluation of our business. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated. RISKS RELATING TO THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE COMPETE 4 OUR BUSINESS IS INFLUENCED BY GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. We have no control over the economy in general or upon the overall level of consumer spending. Our customers generally anticipate and respond to adverse changes or perceptions of changes in economic conditions by limiting or canceling purchases of our products in order to reduce their inventories. Similarly, negative economic trends, a depression and other similar events may depress the level of consumer confidence and consumer spending in general, and on our products specifically. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions or trends, increases in energy costs, interest rates, conflicts around the world, acts of nature, or political or terrorist events that weaken consumer confidence and spending could reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE MEN'S' ACCESSORIES INDUSTRY. The men's' accessories business is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of both domestic and foreign manufacturers, designers and distributors of branded products, as well as private label programs for retailers. Many of these manufacturers, designers, distributors and retailers may be larger and have greater resources than we do. We believe that our ability to effectively compete depends on a number of factors, including the following: o maintaining and expanding our group of highly recognizable licensed brands; o designing and developing products and packaging that have strong and broad appeal to consumers; o pricing products appropriately and providing strong marketing support for them; o meeting the service and technology interface requirements of our customers; o anticipating and responding to changing customer tastes in a timely manner; and o obtaining access to retail outlets and sufficient floor space for our products. WE NEED TO MONITOR AND MEET CONTINUALLY CHANGING CONSUMER PREFERENCES. Consumer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. We believe that our success depends in large part on anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and fashion trends in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold products, or a large number of returns of products from our customers, which in each case could have an adverse effect on us. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS WE SOURCE ALL OF OUR PRODUCTS. We no longer operate manufacturing facilities, and as a result, we rely on third parties for the manufacture of our products. The failure of these parties to fulfill orders, deliver goods in a timely manner, or increase prices could all adversely affect our business. In addition, we purchase substantially all of our small leather goods, principally wallets, from a single supplier. While we have identified alternative suppliers of these goods which we believe we would be able to utilize within several months, unexpected disruption of our present source of supply could have an adverse effect on our small leather goods business in the short-term depending upon our inventory position and on seasonal shipping requirements at that time. WE FACE RISKS INHERENT WITH SOURCING OUR PRODUCTS OVERSEAS. Substantially all of our products are manufactured outside the United States, and our business is subject to risks of doing business abroad. The costs of importing products may be adversely affected by taxes, tariffs, customs, duties and transportation costs, whether as a result of higher prices for energy or other commodities. Our ability to continue to purchase our products overseas is also subject to political instability in countries where our contractors and suppliers are located, and the imposition of regulation and quotas relating to imports, labor disputes, severe weather, or increased homeland security requirements in the United States and in other countries. We also import a substantial portion of our products from China. The recent outbreaks of Avian flu, or a recurrence of SARS, having an impact on China or other countries where our vendors are located could also have a negative impact on their operations, including delaying or preventing shipments. The occurrence of any of these events, which are beyond our control and we are unable to predict, 5 could adversely affect our ability to import our products at current or increased levels or at all from certain countries and could harm our business. OUR LICENSES ARE IMPORTANT TO US. We are the licensee under a number of licenses with both domestic and foreign designers and others. A substantial portion of our revenues derive from the sale of products under trademarks and tradenames which we license from third parties, and we believe that licenses as a whole are material to our operations. While we believe we can replace our licenses with others that would provide us with the ability to sell product lines under new trademarks and tradenames, the loss of our licenses, or any number of them comprising a significant portion of our business, could have an adverse effect, at least in the short-term, on the results of our operations. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS FOR A LARGE PORTION OF OUR REVENUES. Net sales to our four largest customers totaled 49% of our total net sales in fiscal 2005 and totaled 44% of our total net sales in fiscal 2004. Whether because of economic conditions, a change of the focus of products they purchase or other strategic shifts in their business, their financial difficulties, or otherwise, a decision by one of our largest customers to reduce its purchases from us, to reduce floor space or advertising of our products, to require increased allowances or reduced prices, or to take other action, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, consolidation in the retail industry, such as the business combination of two of our customers, Federated Department Stores, Inc. and May Department Stores Company, Inc., may result in store closures; increased customer leverage over its suppliers resulting in lower product prices or margins; tighter inventory management resulting in lower retail inventory levels and decreased orders to us; and a greater potential exposure to credit risk, all of which may adversely affect our business. OUR FAILURE TO RETAIN OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND OTHER KEY PERSONNEL COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our business depends in large part on the personal efforts and abilities of our senior executive officers, particularly John Tulin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other key personnel. If any of these individuals become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business could be adversely affected. WE HAVE A RECENT HISTORY OF UNPROFITABLE OPERATIONS. From fiscal 2000 through fiscal 2003, we were not profitable. Starting in 2000 we closed our domestic manufacturing plants and began moving all of the manufacturing of our products overseas. We also closed and terminated the lease on our former South Norwalk, Connecticut facility, sold certain assets, including those associated with our former women's division, substantially reduced the number of our employees, and implemented numerous cost reduction strategies, all in an effort to return Swank to profitability. Our efforts have been successful to date, and we were profitable in fiscal 2004 and we increased our profitability in 2005. However, our financial condition remains somewhat leveraged, and our financial flexibility to respond to developments in our industry may be less than that of certain of our competitors. We believe our continued profitability depends, at least in part, on our ability to effectively monitor and control our cost structure consistent with anticipated revenue levels. OUR REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY CONTAINS FINANCIAL AND OTHER COVENANT RESTRICTIONS. Our revolving credit facility contains financial and operating covenants, including a minimum cash flow covenant, as well as certain limitations on our ability to sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers, consolidations and certain acquisitions. In addition, advances under the revolving credit facility are subject to borrowing base requirements based on our inventory and accounts receivable levels. Many of these covenants are customary for companies like ours which borrow money from banks and financial institutions. Failure to comply with any of the covenants, which could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations or changes in general economic conditions, might result in our lender asking for the repayment of its loans to us sooner than is currently contemplated by our agreement. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK THERE MAY BE A LIMITED TRADING MARKET FOR OUR STOCK. 6 More than 50% of the issued and outstanding shares of our Common Stock are presently held by The New Swank, Inc. Retirement Plan, and another approximately 10% by our executive officers and directors. In addition, shares of our Common Stock are not listed on any securities exchange or on an automated dealer quotation system and, instead, we rely on the interest of securities dealers in making a market in our shares. Accordingly, from time to time there may be a limited trading market for our shares. PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION, BY-LAWS, DELAWARE LAW AND OUR "POISON PILL" MAY DELAY OR PREVENT AN ACQUISITION OF SWANK BY A THIRD PARTY. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation permits the Board of Directors, to establish, and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of various series of preferred stock (commonly known as "blank check preferred"). Accordingly, the Board could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction with, or a change of control of, Swank. In addition, under our by-laws, the Board of Directors is classified into three classes, with each class being elected for a term of three years. Accordingly, with only one-third of the members of the Board being elected at any annual meeting of stockholders, any third party wanting to change the composition of the Board of Directors through a proxy contest would need to do so over time. On October 26, 1999, we declared a dividend distribution to buy shares of a special series of preferred stock to the holder of each outstanding share of our common stock. The rights may be exercised if, with certain exceptions, a person or group acquires or obtains the right to acquire 15% or more of our common stock. Each right, if not redeemed by the Company, would entitle the holder of each share of our common stock to buy one one-hundredth of a share of preferred stock and, in certain circumstances, shares of our common stock at a substantial discount. While this "poison pill" need not prevent us from entering into consensual transactions, it may have the effect of preventing or delaying unsolicited acquisition or takeover proposals. In addition, Delaware law contains certain provisions that could prevent the acquisition of the Company by a third party if the transaction is not approved by the Board of Directors, even if the transaction would be beneficial to most stockholders. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of the Company's outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with the Company for a period of time after acquiring such shares without the approval of the Board of Directors. * * * * * This list of risk factors, together with the note set forth above Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption "Forward Looking Statements" is not exhaustive. For example, there can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business, or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We assume no obligation (and specifically disclaim any such obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 