Item 1A: Risk Factors Item 2: Properties Item 5: Market for Registrants's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Security Item 6: Selected Financial Data Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7a: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Segment Information Reports of Management and Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Item 9: Changes and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A: Controls and Procedures Item 9B: Other Information Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11: Executive Compensation Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13: Certain Relationship and Related Transactions Item 14: Principal Account Fees and Services Item 15: Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Index to Exhibits UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 Form 10-K X ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 30, 2006 OR __ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-19687 SYNALLOY CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware (State of incorporation) 57-0426694 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) Croft Industrial Park, P.O. Box 5627, Spartanburg, South Carolina 29302 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (864) 585-3605 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value (Title of Class) Name of each exchange on which registered: NASDAQ Global Market Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes __ No X Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes __ No X Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No_ Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ] Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of "accelerated filer" and "large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated Filer __ Accelerated filer __ Non-accelerated filer X Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes __ No X Based on the closing price as of July 1, 2006, which was the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter, the aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $68.6 million. Based on the closing price of February 23, 2007, the aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $144.9 million. The registrant did not have any non-voting common equity outstanding at either date. The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of February 23, 2007 was 6,181,258. Documents Incorporated By Reference Portions of the proxy statement for the 2007 annual shareholders' meeting are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. 1 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes and incorporates by reference "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the securities laws. All statements that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements." The words "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "plan" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including without limitation those identified below, which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The following factors could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated: adverse economic conditions, the impact of competitive products and pricing, product demand and acceptance risks, raw material and other increased costs, raw materials availability, customer delays or difficulties in the production of products, environmental issues, unavailability of debt financing on acceptable terms and exposure to increased market interest rate risk, inability to comply with covenants and ratios required by our debt financing arrangements and other risks detailed from time-to-time in Synalloy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Synalloy Corporation assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. PART I Item 1 Business Synalloy Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("the Company"), was incorporated in 1958 as the successor to a chemical manufacturing business founded in 1945. Its charter is perpetual. The name was changed on July 31, 1967 from Blackman Uhler Industries, Inc. On June 3, 1988, the state of incorporation was changed from South Carolina to Delaware. The Company's executive offices are located at Croft Industrial Park, Spartanburg, South Carolina. The Company’s business is divided into two segments, the Metals Segment and the Specialty Chemicals Segment. The Metals Segment, operating as Bristol Metals, LLC (“Bristol”), manufactures pipe and piping systems from stainless steel and other alloys for the chemical, petrochemical, pulp and paper, mining, power generation (including nuclear), waste water treatment, liquid natural gas, brewery, food processing, petroleum, pharmaceutical and other industries. The Specialty Chemicals Segment is comprised of four operating companies: Blackman Uhler Specialties, LLC (“BU Specialties”), Organic Pigments, LLC (“OP”) and SFR, LLC (“SFR”), all located in Spartanburg, South Carolina, and Manufacturers Chemicals, LLC (“MC”), located in Cleveland, Tennessee and Dalton, Georgia. The Specialty Chemicals Segment produces specialty chemicals, pigments and dyes for the carpet, chemical, paper, metals, photographic, pharmaceutical, agricultural, fiber, paint, textile, automotive, petroleum, cosmetics, mattress, furniture and other industries. General Metals Segment - This Segment is comprised of a wholly-owned subsidiary, Synalloy Metals, Inc. which owns 100 percent of Bristol Metals, LLC, located in Bristol, Tennessee. Bristol manufactures welded pipe, primarily from stainless steel, but also from other corrosion-resistant metals. Pipe is produced in sizes from one-half inch to 112 inches in diameter and wall thickness up to one inch. Sixteen-inch and smaller pipe is made on equipment that forms and welds the pipe in a continuous process. Pipe larger than sixteen inches is formed on presses or rolls and welded on batch welding equipment. Pipe is normally produced in standard 20-foot lengths. However, Bristol has unusual capabilities in the production of long length pipe without circumferential welds. This can reduce installation cost for the customer. Lengths up to 60 feet can be produced in sizes up to sixteen inches in diameter. In larger sizes Bristol has a unique ability among domestic producers to make 48-foot lengths in sizes up to 36 inches. In 2004 Bristol added the ability to x-ray pipe in real time mode along with updated material handling equipment, and during 2006 completed an expansion of its x-ray facilities which allows simultaneous use of real time and film examination. These additions have significantly increased the efficiency of x-raying pipe. In 2005 Bristol also expanded its capabilities for forming large pipe on its existing batch equipment giving Bristol the capability to produce 36-inch diameter pipe in 48-foot lengths and with increased wall thickness of up to one inch. Also included in the expansion was the addition of a shear that has the capacity of shearing stainless steel plate up to one-inch thick. Bristol completed a plant expansion in 2006 that allows the manufacture of pipe up to 42 inches in diameter utilizing more readily available raw materials at lower costs along with automated hydro-testing equipment for pipe 2 Table of Contents up to 72 inches, and began another expansion to be completed in 2007 which will provide improved product handling and additional space for planned equipment additions. A significant amount of the pipe produced is further processed into piping systems that conform to engineered drawings furnished by the customers. This allows the customer to take advantage of the high quality and efficiency of Bristol's fabrication shop rather than performing all of the welding at the construction site. The pipe fabricating shop can make one and one-half diameter cold bends on one-half inch through eight-inch stainless pipe with thicknesses up through schedule 40S. Most piping systems are produced from pipe manufactured by Bristol. Bristol also has the capability of producing carbon and chrome alloy piping systems from pipe purchased from outside suppliers since Bristol does not manufacture carbon or chrome alloy pipe. Carbon and chrome alloy pipe fabrication enhances the stainless fabrication business by allowing Bristol to quote inquiries utilizing any of these three material types. In order to establish stronger business relationships, only a few raw material suppliers are used. Five suppliers furnish more than two-thirds of total dollar purchases of raw materials. However, raw materials are readily available from a number of different sources and the Company anticipates no difficulties in obtaining its requirements. This Segment's products are used principally by customers requiring materials that are corrosion-resistant or suitable for high-purity processes. The largest users are the chemical, petrochemical, pulp and paper and liquid natural gas ("LNG") industries with some other important industry users being mining, power generation (including nuclear), waste water treatment, brewery, food processing, petroleum, pharmaceutical and alternative fuels. Specialty Chemicals Segment - This Segment includes four operating companies all wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company. BU Specialties, OP, and SFR, LLC operate out of a plant in Spartanburg, South Carolina which is fully licensed for chemical manufacture and maintains a permitted waste treatment system. Manufacturers Soap and Chemical Company, which owns 100 percent of MC is located in Cleveland, Tennessee and Dalton, Georgia and is fully licensed for chemical manufacture. The Segment produces specialty chemicals, pigments and dyes for the carpet, chemical, paper, metals, photographic, pharmaceutical, agricultural, fiber, paint, textile, automotive, petroleum, cosmetics, mattress, furniture and other industries. MC, purchased by the Company in 1996, produces over 500 specialty formulations and intermediates for use in a wide variety of applications and industries. MC’s primary product lines focus on the areas of defoamers, surfactants and lubricating agents. Over 20 years ago, MC began diversifying its marketing efforts and expanding beyond traditional textile chemical markets. These three fundamental product lines find their way into a large number of manufacturing businesses. Over the years, the customer list has grown to include end users and chemical companies that supply paper, metal working, surface coatings, water treatment, mining and janitorial applications. MC’s strategy has been to focus on industries and markets that have good prospects for sustainability in the U.S. in light of global trends. MC’s marketing strategy relies on sales to end users through its own sales force, but it also sells chemical intermediates to other chemical companies and distributors. It also has close working relationships with a significant number of major chemical companies that outsource their production for regional manufacture and distribution to companies like MC. MC has been ISO registered since 1995. MC has utilized acquisitions to help further expand its markets. An acquisition in 2000 enabled the Company to enter into the sulfation of fats and oils. These products are used in a wide variety of applications and represent a renewable resource, animal and vegetable derivatives, as alternatives to more expensive and non-renewable petroleum derivatives. In 2001 MC acquired the assets of a Dalton, Georgia based company that serves the carpet and rug markets and also focuses on processing aids for wire drawing. MC Dalton blends and sells specialty dyestuffs and resells heavy chemicals and specialty chemicals, manufactured in MC’s Cleveland plant, to its markets out of its leased warehousing facility. The Dalton site also contains a shade matching laboratory and sales offices for the group. BU Specialties’ business activities involve contract production and toll manufacturing for a number of domestic and international chemical companies. It also produces a small but growing number of finished products and intermediates that are marketed by MC and by a marketing representative recently assigned to building proprietary sales. This location has also focused on markets that are believed to be long-term outlets for its production and capacity. BU Specialties carries out high temperature condensation and sulfates as does MC, but also hydrogenates, methylates, distills, epoxidizes, grinds and spray dries chemicals to its customers’ specifications. The location also is registered for FIFRA regulated agricultural products and it hammermills, dry 3 Table of Contents blends and has excellent control for exothermic reactions. Both the MC and BU Specialties sites have extensive chemical storage and blending capabilities. BU Specialties has produced products that are used in oil refining, automotive applications, cosmetics, agriculture and the paper industry. Like MC, it is focusing primarily on raw materials and product lines that will rely on renewable vegetable sourced chemicals for future growth and expansions of its business. During the first quarter of 2006, OP’s operations were relocated to Spartanburg from Greensboro, North Carolina. OP’s production equipment, laboratories, sales office and warehousing were relocated into available areas of the Spartanburg plant, and the Greensboro plant site was sold. The improved utilization of facilities in Spartanburg and the ability for BU Specialties and OP to share certain services brings economies to both business units. OP sells aqueous pigment dispersions that have traditionally been used by the textile industry. While certain textile business continues to contribute a significant portion of OP’s revenues, it, too, is continuing to diversify into stable markets that are believed to be sustainable in the future. These include applications for printing inks, graphic arts, paints, industrial coatings, flexographic printing, plastic and agriculture. The dispersions are produced from organic intermediates and inorganic chemicals, sourced domestically, as well as from Asia and Europe. Redundant sources exist for most of the Company’s pigments bases. OP is known for its higher solid and finer particle size dispersions that are especially suited for non-textile applications. In 2003 Synalloy Corporation entered into a Joint Development Agreement with the Felters Group of Spartanburg, South Carolina to pursue the fire retardant market as it relates to mattress and bedding, upholstery, appliance and transportation applications. Since that time, chemical formulations have been developed for application on a variety of substrates and the Felters Group has directed sales and marketing efforts toward these target markets. Products have been promoted under the Felters Sleep Safe ™ brand name. In the fourth quarter of 2006, SFR was established to oversee the product development, production, quality assurance and technical servicing of the Segment’s fire retardant products for promotion by the Felters Group. It is anticipated that during 2007 a significant demand will develop for these products as the U.S. Consumer Safety Commission Standards for fire retardant properties of mattresses go into effect on July 1, 2007. The products will be produced at both the MC and BU Specialties locations. In addition, certain intumescent formulations will be produced by a subcontractor to support the anticipated demand. This business is currently being supported by one chemist, the V.P. of Operations of MC and one full-time sales employee. The Specialty Chemicals Segment maintains seven laboratories for applied research and quality control which are staffed by 25 employees. Most raw materials used by the Segment are generally available from numerous independent suppliers while some raw material needs are met by a sole supplier or only a few suppliers. However, the Company anticipates no difficulties in obtaining its requirements. Please see Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, for financial information about the Company's Segments. Sales and Distribution Metals Segment - The Metals Segment utilizes separate sales organizations for its different product groups. Stainless steel pipe is sold nationwide under the Brismet trade name through authorized stocking distributors at warehouse locations throughout the country. In addition, large quantity orders are shipped directly from Bristol's plant to end-user customers. Producing sales and providing service to the distributors and end-user customers are the Vice President of Sales, two outside sales employees, six independent manufacturers' representatives and nine inside sales employees. The Metals Segment had one domestic customer (Hughes Supply, Inc.) that accounted for approximately 15, 11 and 20 percent of the Metals Segment’s revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and approximately ten and 13 percent of consolidated revenues in 2006 and 2004, respectively. The Segment also had one domestic customer that accounted for approximately 14 percent of the Segment’s revenues in 2006, and less than ten percent for 2005 and 2004. Loss of either of these customers’ revenues would have a material adverse effect on both the Metals Segment and the Company. Piping systems are sold nationwide under the Bristol Piping Systems trade name by three outside sales employees. They are under the direction of the President of Bristol who spends a substantial amount of his time in sales and service to customers. Piping systems are marketed to engineering firms and construction companies or 4 Table of Contents directly to project owners. Orders are normally received as a result of competitive bids submitted in response to inquiries and bid proposals. Specialty Chemicals Segment - Specialty chemicals are sold directly to various industries nationwide by eight full-time outside sales employees and five manufacturers' representatives. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Segment hired an employee to manage the sales and manufacturing operations of BU Specialties bringing over 30 years of experience in the chemical industry. In addition, the President and other members of the management team of MC devote a substantial part of their time to sales. The Specialty Chemicals Segment had one domestic customer that accounted for approximately 13 percent of the Segment’s revenues in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and less than ten percent for 2004. The Segment also had one domestic customer that accounted for approximately 13 percent of the Segment’s revenues in 2006, and less than ten percent for 2005 and 2004. Loss of either of these customers’ revenues would have a material adverse effect on the Specialty Chemicals Segment. Competition Metals Segment - Welded stainless steel pipe is the largest sales volume product of the Metals Segment. Although information is not publicly available regarding the sales of most other producers of this product, management believes that the Company is one of the largest domestic producers of such pipe. This commodity product is highly competitive with eight known domestic producers and imports from many different countries. The largest sales volume among the specialized products comes from fabricating stainless, nickel alloys and chrome alloys piping systems. Management believes the Company is one of the largest producers of such systems. There is also significant competition in the piping systems markets with nine known domestic suppliers with similar capabilities as Bristol, along with many other smaller suppliers. Specialty Chemicals Segment - The Company is the sole producer of certain specialty chemicals manufactured for other companies under processing agreements and also produces proprietary specialty chemicals. The Company's sales of specialty products are insignificant compared to the overall market for specialty chemicals. The market for most of the products is highly competitive and many competitors have substantially greater resources than does the Company. The market for pigments and dyes is highly competitive and the Company has less than ten percent of the market for its products. Environmental Matters Environmental expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and that do not contribute to future revenue generation are expensed. Liabilities are recorded when environmental assessments and/or cleanups are probable and the costs of these assessments and/or cleanups can be reasonably estimated. See Note G to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, for further discussion. Research and Development Activities The Company spent approximately $312,000 in 2006, $566,000 in 2005, and $551,000 in 2004 on research and development activities expensed in its Specialty Chemicals Segment. Nine individuals, all of whom are graduate chemists, are engaged primarily in research and development of new products and processes, the improvement of existing products and processes, and the development of new applications for existing products. Seasonal Nature of the Business The annual requirements of certain specialty chemicals are produced over a period of a few months as requested by the customers. Accordingly, the sales of these products may vary significantly from one quarter to another. Backlogs The Specialty Chemicals Segment operates primarily on the basis of delivering products soon after orders are received. Accordingly, backlogs are not a factor in these businesses. The same applies to commodity pipe sales in the Metals Segment. However, backlogs are important in the piping systems products because they are produced only after orders are received, generally as the result of competitive bidding. Order backlogs for these products were $54,900,000 at the end of 2006, 80 percent of which should be completed in 2007, and $20,100,000 and $11,500,000 at the 2005 and 2004 respective year ends. 5 Table of Contents Employee Relations As of December 30, 2006, the Company had 437 employees. The Company considers relations with employees to be satisfactory. The number of employees of the Company represented by unions, all located at the Bristol, Tennessee facility, is 232. They are represented by two locals affiliated with the AFL-CIO and one local affiliated with the Teamsters. Collective bargaining contracts will expire in February 2009, December 2009 and March 2010. Financial Information about Geographic Areas Information about revenues derived from domestic and foreign customers is set forth in Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 1A Risk Factors There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. Set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described are not the only risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. Reference should be made to “Forward-looking Statements” above, and “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 below. The cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate causes demand for our products to be cyclical, creating uncertainty regarding future profitability. Various changes in general economic conditions affect the industries in which our customers operate. These changes include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers’ products due to economic downturns. Other factors causing fluctuation in our customers’ positions are changes in market demand, capital spending, lower overall pricing due to domestic and international overcapacity, lower priced imports, currency fluctuations, and increases in use or decreases in prices of substitute materials. As a result of these factors, our profitability has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuation. Product pricing and raw material costs are subject to volatility, both of which may have an adverse effect on our revenues. From time-to-time, intense competition and excess manufacturing capacity in the commodity stainless steel industry have resulted in reduced prices, excluding raw material surcharges, for many of our stainless steel products sold by the Metals Segment. These factors have had and may have an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Although inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate, during the same period stainless steel raw material costs, including surcharges on stainless steel, have been volatile. While we are able to mitigate some of the adverse impact of rising raw material costs, such as passing through surcharges to customers, rapid increases in raw material costs may adversely affect our results of operations. Surcharges on stainless steel are also subject to rapid declines which can result in similar declines in selling prices causing a possible marketability problem on the related inventory as well as negatively impacting revenues and profitability. While there has been ample availability of raw materials, there continues to be a significant consolidation of stainless steel suppliers throughout the world which could have an impact on the cost and availability of stainless steel in the future. The ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs, including surcharges on stainless steel, availability of raw materials, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, to the extent that we have quoted prices to customers and accepted customer orders for products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, or have existing contracts, we may be unable to raise the price of products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials. The Specialty Chemicals Segment uses significant quantities of a variety of specialty and commodity chemicals in its manufacturing processes which are subject to price and availability fluctuations. Any significant variations in the cost and availability of our specialty and commodity materials may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The raw materials we use are generally available from numerous independent suppliers. However, some of our raw material needs are met by a sole supplier or only a few suppliers. If any supplier that we rely on for raw materials ceases or limits production, we may incur significant additional costs, including capital costs, in order to find alternate, reliable raw material suppliers. We may also experience significant production delays while locating new supply sources. Purchase prices and availability of these critical raw materials are subject to volatility. Some of the raw materials used by this Segment are derived from petrochemical-based feedstocks, such as crude oil and natural gas, which have been subject to historical periods of rapid and significant movements in price. These fluctuations in price could be aggravated by factors beyond our 6 Table of Contents control such as political instability, and supply and demand factors, including OPEC production quotas and increased global demand for petroleum-based products. At any given time we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable, or at all. If suppliers increase the price of critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. We selectively pass changes in the prices of raw materials to our customers from time-to-time. However, we cannot always do so, and any limitation on our ability to pass through any price increases could affect our financial performance. We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products in both of our Segments. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of energy resources could temporarily impair the ability to manufacture products for customers. Further, increases in energy costs that cannot be passed on to customers, or changes in costs relative to energy costs paid by competitors, has and may continue to adversely affect our profitability. We encounter significant competition in all areas of our businesses and may be unable to compete effectively which could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. We actively compete with companies producing the same or similar products and, in some instances, with companies producing different products designed for the same uses. We encounter competition from both domestic and foreign sources in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation and product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. For some of our products, our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and less debt than we do. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which we operate, a change in the prices of raw materials or a change in the economy as a whole. Our competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and more efficient production capabilities, which could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. Current and future consolidation among our competitors and customers also may cause a loss of market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. If we cannot compete successfully, our business, financial condition and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. The applicability of numerous environmental laws to our manufacturing facilities could cause us to incur material costs and liabilities. We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination of any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site. We are also required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. Our operations entail the risk of violations of those laws and regulations, and we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with all of these requirements. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. Although we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with any such requirements, the costs could be material. Non-compliance could subject us to material liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspension of non-compliant operations. We also may be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future developments also could restrict or eliminate the use of or require us to make modifications to our products, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. At any given time, we are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types involving potential environmental liabilities, including cleanup costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites at our facilities. We cannot assure you that the resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. For additional information related to environmental matters, see Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities which are subject to a number of hazards. In our Specialty Chemicals Segment, these production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and 7 Table of Contents ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards which could result in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. In addition, some of our production facilities are highly specialized, which limits our ability to shift production to other facilities in the event of an incident at a particular facility. If a production facility, or a critical portion of a production facility, were temporarily shut down, we likely would incur higher costs for alternate sources of supply for our products. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain of our employees in the Metals Segment are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and the failure to renew these agreements could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs. We have 232 employees represented by unions at the Bristol, Tennessee facility which is 53 percent of our total employees. They are represented by two locals affiliated with the AFL-CIO and one local affiliated with the Teamsters. Collective bargaining contracts will expire in February 2009, December 2009 and March 2010. Although we believe that our present labor relations are satisfactory, our failure to renew these agreements on reasonable terms as the current agreements expire could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance. The limits imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could prevent us from obtaining adequate working capital, making acquisitions or capital improvements, or cause us to lose access to our facilities. Our existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow money or guarantee the debts of others, use assets as security in other transactions, make investments or other restricted payments or distributions, change our business or enter into new lines of business, and sell or acquire assets or merge with or into other companies. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet financial ratios which could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facilities will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we will be in default and the maturity of the related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. We may be required to obtain waivers from our lender in order to maintain compliance under our credit facilities, including waivers with respect to our compliance with certain financial covenants. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt under our credit facilities is accelerated, our financial condition would be adversely affected. We may not have access to capital in the future. We may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. If we are unable to access capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may not be able to expand our business or meet our payment requirements under our existing credit facilities. Our ability to obtain new or additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to obtain new or additional financing because we may have substantial debt or because we may not have sufficient cash flow to service or repay our existing or future debt. In addition, depending on market conditions and our financial performance, equity financing may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. Our existing property and liability insurance coverages contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. We have maintained various forms of insurance, including insurance covering claims related to our properties and risks associated with our operations. From time-to-time, in connection with renewals of insurance, we have experienced additional exclusions and limitations on coverage, larger self-insured retentions and deductibles and higher premiums, primarily from our Specialty Chemicals operations. As a result, in the future our insurance coverage may not cover claims to the extent that it has in the past and the costs that we incur to procure insurance may increase significantly, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We believe that we must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities in order to continue to be a market leader. We also believe that we must continue to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. When we invest in new technologies, processes, or production capabilities, we face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated results of operations. Our strategy of using acquisitions and dispositions to position our businesses may not always be successful. We have historically utilized acquisitions and dispositions in an effort to strategically position our businesses and 8 Table of Contents improve our ability to compete. We plan to continue to do this by seeking specialty niches, acquiring businesses complementary to existing strengths and continually evaluating the performance and strategic fit of our existing business units. We consider acquisition, joint ventures, and other business combination opportunities as well as possible business unit dispositions. From time-to-time, management holds discussions with management of other companies to explore such opportunities. As a result, the relative makeup of the businesses comprising our Company is subject to change. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such as: assessing accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; our ability to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 