Item 1A Risk FactorsThere are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. Set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described are not the only risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. Reference should be made to "Forward-Looking Statements" above, and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 below.The cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate causes demand for our products to be cyclical, creating uncertainty regarding future profitability. Various changes in general economic conditions affect the industries in which our customers operate. These changes include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers' products due to economic downturns. Other factors causing fluctuation in our customers' positions are changes in market demand, capital spending, lower overall pricing due to domestic and international overcapacity, lower priced imports, currency fluctuations, and increases in use or decreases in prices of substitute materials. As a result of these factors, our profitability has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuation.Domestic and international competition could force lower product pricing and may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. From time-to-time, intense competition, an influx of a higher than normal amount of foreign products and excess manufacturing capacity in the commodity stainless steel industry have resulted in reduced selling prices, excluding raw material surcharges, for many of our stainless steel products sold by the Metals Segment. In order to maintain market share, we would have to lower our prices to match the competition.These factors have had and may have an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Raw material costs are subject to volatility. While we are able to mitigate some of the adverse impact of rising raw material costs, such as passing through surcharges to customers, rapid increases in raw material costs may adversely affect our results of operations mainly for our fabrication and steel tank operations. Their entire production and sales model is based upon producing to order. During the bidding process, we quote the job based upon current market prices for stainless and carbon steel plate, pipe and fittings. Rapid changes in raw material costs during the period of time from when we bid the job to when the materials were ordered would change our resultant profitability on that job. Surcharges on stainless steel are also subject to rapid declines which can result in similar declines in selling prices causing a possible marketability problem on the related inventory as well as negatively impacting revenues and profitability. We produce all of our commodity pipe for inventory so that we can quickly respond to our customer's requirements. As stainless steel surcharges decrease, our revenues are based upon current pricing which were reduced for the lower surcharge while our cost reflects the higher historical numbers. This causes our profitability to erode. 7While there has been ample availability of raw materials, there continues to be a significant consolidation of stainless steel suppliers throughout the world which could have an impact on the cost and availability of stainless steel in the future. The ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs, including surcharges on stainless steel, availability of raw materials, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, most of which are beyond our control. As noted above, to the extent that we have quoted prices to customers and accepted customer orders for products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, or have existing contracts, we may be unable to raise the price of products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials.The Specialty Chemicals Segment uses significant quantities of a variety of specialty and commodity chemicals in its manufacturing processes which are subject to price and availability fluctuations. Any significant variations in the cost and availability of our specialty and commodity materials may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The raw materials we use are generally available from numerous independent suppliers. However, some of our raw material needs are met by a sole supplier or only a few suppliers. If any supplier that we rely on for raw materials ceases or limits production, we may incur significant additional costs, including capital costs, in order to find alternate, reliable raw material suppliers. We may also experience significant production delays while locating new supply sources. Purchase prices and availability of these critical raw materials are subject to volatility. Some of the raw materials used by this Segment are derived from petrochemical-based feedstock, such as crude oil and natural gas, which have been subject to historical periods of rapid and significant movements in price. These fluctuations in price could be aggravated by factors beyond our control such as political instability, and supply and demand factors, including OPEC production quotas and increased global demand for petroleum-based products. At any given time we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable, or at all. If suppliers increase the price of critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. We selectively pass changes in the prices of raw materials to our customers from time-to-time. However, we cannot always do so, and any limitation on our ability to pass through any price increases could affect our financial performance.We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products in both of our Segments. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of energy resources could temporarily impair the ability to manufacture products for customers. Further, increases in energy costs that cannot be passed on to customers, or changes in costs relative to energy costs paid by competitors, has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our profitability.We encounter significant competition in all areas of our businesses and may be unable to compete effectively, which could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. We actively compete with companies producing the same or similar products and, in some instances, with companies producing different products designed for the same uses. We encounter competition from both domestic and foreign sources in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation and product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. For some of our products, our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which we operate, a change in the prices of raw materials or a change in the economy as a whole. Our competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and more efficient production capabilities, which could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. Current and future consolidation among our competitors and customers also may cause a loss of market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. If we cannot compete successfully, our business, financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.The applicability of numerous environmental laws to our manufacturing facilities could cause us to incur material costs and liabilities. We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water, climate changes and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination of any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site. We are also required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. Our operations entail the risk of violations of those laws and regulations, and we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with all of these requirements. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future. Although we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with any such requirements, the costs could be material. Non-compliance could subject us to material liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspension of non-compliant operations. We also may be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future developments also could restrict or eliminate the use of or require us to make modifications to our products, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. At any given time, we are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types involving potential environmental liabilities, including cleanup costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites at our facilities. We cannot assure you that the resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. The ultimate costs and timing of 8environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. For additional information related to environmental matters, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities which are subject to a number of hazards. In our Specialty Chemicals Segment, these production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards which could result in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. In addition, some of our production capabilities are highly specialized, which limits our ability to shift production to another facility in the event of an incident at a particular facility. If a production facility, or a critical portion of a production facility, were temporarily shut down, we likely would incur higher costs for alternate sources of supply for our products. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Certain of our employees in the Metals Segment are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and the failure to renew these agreements could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs. We have 224 employees represented by unions at the Bristol, Tennessee facility, which is 38 percent of our total employees. They are represented by two locals affiliated with the AFL-CIO and one local affiliated with the Teamsters. Collective bargaining contracts will expire in January 2015, February 2014 and March 2015. Although we believe that our present labor relations are satisfactory, our failure to renew these agreements on reasonable terms as the current agreements expire could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance.The limits imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could prevent us from obtaining adequate working capital, making acquisitions or capital improvements, or cause us to lose access to our facilities. Our existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow money or guarantee the debts of others, use assets as security in other transactions, make investments or other restricted payments or distributions, change our business or enter into new lines of business, and sell or acquire assets or merge with or into other companies. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet financial ratios which could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facilities will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we will be in default and the maturity of any then outstanding related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. We may be required to obtain waivers from our lender in order to maintain compliance under our credit facilities, including waivers with respect to our compliance with certain financial covenants. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt under our credit facilities is accelerated, our financial condition would be adversely affected.We may not have access to capital in the future. We may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. If we are unable to access capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may not be able to expand our business or meet our payment requirements under our existing credit facilities. Our ability to obtain new or additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to obtain new or additional financing because we may have substantial debt or because we may not have sufficient cash flow to service or repay our existing or future debt. In addition, depending on market conditions and our financial performance, equity financing may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all.Our existing property and liability insurance coverages contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. We have maintained various forms of insurance, including insurance covering claims related to our properties and risks associated with our operations. From time-to-time, in connection with renewals of insurance, we have experienced additional exclusions and limitations on coverage, larger self-insured retentions and deductibles and higher premiums, primarily from our Specialty Chemicals operations. As a result, in the future our insurance coverage may not cover claims to the extent that it has in the past and the costs that we incur to procure insurance may increase significantly, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We may not be able to make changes necessary to continue to be a market leader and an effective competitor. We believe that we must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities in order to continue to be a market leader. We also believe that we must continue to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. When we invest in new technologies, processes, or production capabilities, we face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated results of operations.Our strategy of using acquisitions and dispositions to position our businesses may not always be successful. We have historically utilized acquisitions and dispositions in an effort to strategically position our businesses and improve our ability to compete. We 9plan to continue to do this by seeking specialty niches, acquiring businesses complementary to existing strengths and continually evaluating the performance and strategic fit of our existing business units. We consider acquisition, joint ventures, and other business combination opportunities as well as possible business unit dispositions. From time-to-time, management holds discussions with management of other companies to explore such opportunities. As a result, the relative makeup of the businesses comprising our Company is subject to change. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such as: assessing accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; significant transaction costs that were not identified during due diligence; our ability to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction.Our internal controls over financial reporting could fail to prevent or detect misstatements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls or to timely effect any necessary improvement in our internal control and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm our reputation or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition.Cyber security risks and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business and disrupt operations. Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, disrupted operations, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cyber security protection costs, litigation and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence.Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in delays or eliminate new wells from being started, thus reducing the demand for our fiberglass and steel storage tanks. Hydraulic fracturing ("fracking") is currently an essential and common practice to extract oil from dense subsurface rock formations and this lower cost extraction method is a significant driving force behind the recent surge of oil exploration and drilling in several locations in the United States. However, the Environmental Protection Agency, Congress and state legislatures have considered adopting legislation to provide additional regulations and disclosures surrounding this process. In the event that new legal restrictions surrounding the fracking process are adopted in the areas that our customers operate in, we may see a dramatic decrease in tank profitability.Oil prices are extremely volatile. A substantial or extended decline in the price of oil could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prices for oil can fluctuate widely. Palmer's revenues are highly dependent on our customers adding oil well drilling and pumping locations. Should oil prices decline whereby drilling becomes unprofitable for our customers, they will cap many of their current wells and cease expansion. This will decrease the demand for our tanks and adversely affect the results of our operations.Our results of operations could be adversely affected by goodwill impairments. As a result of our acquisitions, we have approximately $18.3 million of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Goodwill must be tested at least annually for impairment, and more frequently when circumstances indicate likely impairment. Goodwill is considered impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds its implied fair value. An impairment of goodwill could have a substantial negative effect on our profitability.The loss of key members of our management team, or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel, could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success. The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other issues integral to our future success will depend, in part, on our experienced management team. The loss of key members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Also, if we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate to cover actual losses. An allowance for doubtful accounts in maintained for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and for disputed claims and quality issues. This allowance may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the outstanding receivables and existing economic conditions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other outside forces and conditions, all of which are beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. While management believes that the allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to cover current estimated losses, we 10cannot make assurances that we will not further increase the allowance for doubtful accounts. A significant increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts could adversely affect earnings.While our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, it has less liquidity than stocks for larger companies quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market or other stock exchanges. There is no assurance that a more active and liquid trading market for the common stock will exist in the future. Consequently, shareholders may not be able to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or reduce our ability to raise capital through future sales of common stock.Item 1B Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.