Item 1A. Risk Factors Low Margin Business; Inflation and Economic Sensitivity The foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins. SYSCO makes a significant portion of its sales at prices that are based on the cost of products it sells plus a percentage markup. As a result, SYSCO’s profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though SYSCO’s gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. Prolonged periods of product cost inflation also may have a negative impact on the company’s profit margins and earnings to the extent such product cost increases are not passed on to customers due to resistance to higher prices and the timing needed to pass on such increases. The foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. Inflation, fuel costs and other factors affecting consumer confidence and the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home may negatively impact SYSCO’s sales and operating results. SYSCO’s operating results are also sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, other factors, including difficulties collecting accounts receivable, competitive price pressures, severe weather conditions and unexpected increases in fuel or other transportation-related costs. Although these factors have not had a material adverse impact on SYSCO’s past operations, there can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not adversely affect future operating results. Increased Fuel Costs Increased fuel costs have recently had a negative impact on the company’s results of operations. The high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. The high cost of fuel can also increase the price paid by SYSCO for products as well as the costs incurred by SYSCO to deliver products to its customers. These factors in turn negatively impact SYSCO’s sales, margins, operating expenses and operating results. Interruption of Supplies and Increases in Product Costs SYSCO obtains substantially all of its foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. For the most part, SYSCO does not have long-term contracts with its suppliers committing them to provide products to SYSCO. Although SYSCO’s purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by SYSCO in the quantities and at the prices requested. Because SYSCO does not control the actual production of the products it sells, it also is subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside its control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to, the outbreak of avian flu or similar food-borne illnesses in the United States and 5 Table of Contents Canada). SYSCO’s inability to obtain adequate supplies of its foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that SYSCO could not fulfill its obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. Baugh Supply Chain Cooperative Structure The National Supply Chain project involved the creation of BSCC which administers a consolidated product procurement program to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products. BSCC is a cooperative for income tax purposes. SYSCO believes that the cooperative entity is appropriate for BSCC based on the business operations of this affiliate and on the legal structure applied. However, if the application of the cooperative structure was to be disallowed by any federal, state or local tax authority, SYSCO could be required to accelerate the payment of a portion or all of its income tax liabilities that it otherwise has deferred until future periods and be liable for interest on such amounts. Amounts included as deferred income tax liabilities related to BSCC deferred supply chain distributions were $924,902,000 as of July 1, 2006. If SYSCO was required to accelerate a significant portion of these deferred tax liabilities, the company may be required to raise additional capital through debt financing or the issuance of equity or it may be required to forego or defer planned capital expenditures or share repurchases or a combination thereof and may be required to pay interest on amounts deferred. Leverage and Debt Service Because a substantial part of SYSCO’s growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion, SYSCO’s continued growth depends, in large part, on its ability to continue this expansion. As a result, its inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict its ability to expand. Moreover, any default under the documents governing the indebtedness of SYSCO could have a significant adverse effect on the company’s cash flows, as well as the market value of SYSCO’s common stock. Further, SYSCO’s leveraged position may also increase its vulnerability to competitive pressures. Product Liability Claims SYSCO, like any other seller of food, faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by the company causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, SYSCO believes it has sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. However, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of SYSCO’s liabilities. SYSCO generally seeks contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying its products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If SYSCO does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce SYSCO’s net earnings and earnings per share. Reputation and Media Exposure Maintaining a good reputation is critical to SYSCO’s business, particularly to selling SYSCO Brand products. Anything that damages that reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of the company’s products, could quickly affect its revenues and profits. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure the company’s reputation. If patrons of the company’s restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, the customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and SYSCO’s sales would be correspondingly decreased. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, even those unrelated to the use of SYSCO products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales to decrease dramatically. Labor Relations and Availability of Qualified Labor As of July 1, 2006, approximately 8,800 employees at 55 operating companies were members of 61 different local unions associated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and other labor organizations. In fiscal 2007, 16 agreements covering approximately 2,000 employees will expire. Failure of the operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. Although SYSCO’s operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and SYSCO believes they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on SYSCO. 6 Table of Contents SYSCO’s operations rely heavily on its employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect the company’s business. Our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. Any such shortage would decrease SYSCO’s ability to effectively serve its customers. Such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in the company’s revenue and earnings. Charter and Preferred Stock Under its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, SYSCO’s Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1.5 million shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire SYSCO without approval of the Board of Directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. In addition, if anyone attempts to acquire SYSCO without approval of the Board of Directors of SYSCO, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the Board of Directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquiror. As a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of SYSCO that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to SYSCO’s stockholders could be deterred. Tax Audit As of July 1, 2006, the company’s 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns were under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The company believes that it has appropriate support for the positions taken on these tax returns and has recorded a liability for its best estimate of the probable loss on certain of these positions. However, if the IRS disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, SYSCO could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have an adverse effect on the company’s financial results and cash flows. Reliance on Technology SYSCO’s ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as its ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of its technology network. The company uses software and other technology systems to load trucks in the most efficient manner to optimize the use of storage space and minimize the time spent at each stop. Any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact SYSCO’s customer service, decrease the volume of its business and result in increased costs. While SYSCO has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate the company from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 7 Table of Contents 