Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We urge you to consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, and other reports and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission in evaluating our business and prospects. Risks and uncertainties, in addition to those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed, and the price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Our contracts with the Federal Government may be terminated or adversely modified prior to completion, which could adversely affect our business. Federal Government contracts generally contain provisions, and are subject to laws and regulations, that give the Federal Government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions permitting the Federal Government to: ཉ terminate our existing contracts; ཉ reduce potential future income from our existing contracts; ཉ modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; ཉ suspend or permanently prohibit us from doing business with the Federal Government or with any specific government agency; ཉ impose fines and penalties; ཉ subject us to criminal prosecution; ཉ subject the award of some contracts to protest or challenge by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest or challenge and which may also require the government to solicit new proposals for the contract or result in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract; ཉ suspend work under existing multiple year contracts and related task orders if the necessary funds are not appropriated by Congress; ཉ decline to exercise an option to extend an existing multiple year contract; and ཉ claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us. The Federal Government may terminate a contract with us either “for convenience” (for instance, due to a change in its perceived needs or its desire to consolidate work under another contract) or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. If the Federal Government terminates a contract with us for convenience, we generally would be entitled to recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. If the Federal Government terminates a contract with us based upon our default, we generally would be denied any recovery for undelivered work, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the Federal Government in procuring undelivered items from an alternative source and other damages as authorized by law. Our Federal Government contracts typically have terms of base year and one or more option and award years. Many of the option periods cover more than half of the contract’s potential term. Federal governmental agencies generally have the right not to exercise options to extend a contract. A decision to terminate or not to exercise options to extend our existing contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our Federal Government contracts also contain “organizational conflict of interest” clauses that could limit our ability to compete for certain related follow-on contracts. For example, when we work on the design of a particular solution, we may be precluded from competing for the contract to install that solution. While we actively monitor our contracts to avoid these conflicts, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to avoid all organizational conflict of interest issues. If we fail to establish and maintain important relationships with government entities and agencies, our ability to successfully bid for new business may be adversely affected. To develop new business opportunities, we primarily rely on establishing and maintaining relationships with various government entities and agencies. We may be unable to successfully maintain our relationships with government entities and agencies, and any failure to do so could materially adversely affect our ability to compete successfully for new business. Failure to maintain strong relationships with other government contractors could result in a decline in our revenue. In our federal business we often act as a subcontractor or in “teaming” arrangements in which we and other contractors bid together on particular contracts or programs. As a subcontractor or team member, we often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could tarnish our reputation, even when we perform as required. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our revenue and operating results could be materially adversely affected if any prime contractor or teammate chooses to offer a client services of the type that we provide or if any prime contractor or teammate teams with other companies to independently provide those services. We cannot guarantee that our contracts will result in actual revenue. There can be no assurance that our contracts will result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, or that any contract will be profitable. The actual receipt and timing of any revenue is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The actual receipt of revenue on contracts may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change, the program could be canceled, a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early, or an option that we had assumed would be exercised not being exercised. Further, while many of our Federal Government contracts require performance over a period of years, Congress often appropriates funds for these contracts for only one year at a time. Consequently, our contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term, and all or some of the work intended to be performed under the contracts will remain unfunded pending subsequent Congressional appropriations and the obligation of additional funds to the contract by the procuring agency. Our estimates of contract value are based on our experience under such contracts and similar contracts. However, there can be no assurances that all, or any, of such estimated contract value will be recognized as revenue. Loss of our GSA contracts or MACs would impair our ability to attract new business. We are a prime contractor under several GSA Schedule contracts and MAC contracts. We believe that our ability to continue to provide services under these contracts will continue to be important to our business because of the multiple opportunities for new engagements each contract provides. If we were to lose our position as prime contractor on one or more of these contracts, we could lose substantial revenues and our operating results could suffer. GSA contracts and other MACs typically have a one or two-year initial term with multiple options exercisable at the government client’s discretion to extend the contract for one or more years. We cannot be assured that our government clients will continue to exercise the options remaining on our current contracts, nor can we be assured that our future clients will exercise options on any contracts we may receive in the future. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees or employees with the necessary security clearances, we might not be able to perform under our contracts or win new business. The growth of our business and revenue depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly qualified individuals who have advanced information technology and/or engineering skills. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. Further, obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be limited. In a tight labor market, our direct labor costs could increase or we may be required to engage large numbers of subcontractor personnel, which could cause our profit margins to suffer. In addition, some of our contracts contain provisions requiring us to staff an engagement with personnel that the client considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutions, the client may terminate the contract and we may lose revenue. In addition, certain Federal Government contracts require us, and some of our employees, to maintain security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to obtain security clearances, or if we are unable to hire employees with the appropriate security clearances, the client may terminate the contract or decide not to renew the contract upon its expiration. As a result, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which, if not replaced with revenue from other contracts, could seriously harm our operating results. Our failure to maintain appropriate staffing levels could adversely affect our business. We can not be certain that we will be able to hire the requisite number of experienced and skilled personnel when necessary in order to service a major contract, particularly if the market for related personnel becomes competitive. Conversely, if we maintain or increase our staffing levels in anticipation of one or more projects and the projects are delayed, reduced or terminated, we may underutilize the additional personnel, which would increase our general and administrative expenses, reduce our earnings and possibly harm our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain major contracts or effectively complete such contracts due to staffing deficiencies, our revenues may decline and our business may be harmed. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance and reputation as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could suffer. As a prime contractor, we often rely significantly upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are obligated to perform for our clients. As we secure more work we expect to require an increasing level of support from subcontractors that provide complementary and supplementary services to our offerings. Depending on labor market conditions, we may not be able to identify, hire and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees to perform the task orders we expect to win. In such cases, we will need to rely on subcontracts with unrelated companies. Moreover, even in favorable labor market conditions, we anticipate entering into more subcontracts in the future as we expand our work under our MACs. We are responsible for the work performed by our subcontractors, even though in some cases we have limited involvement in that work. If one or more of our subcontractors fail to satisfactorily perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis or violate Federal Government contracting policies, laws or regulations, our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor or meet our clients’ expectations may be compromised. In extreme cases, performance or other deficiencies on the part of our subcontractors could result in a client terminating our contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability, including liability for the agency’s costs of reprocurement, could damage our reputation and could hurt our ability to compete for future contracts. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could cause us to lose contracts. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with Federal Government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation and could result in a loss of contracts and a reduction in revenues. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could cause us to lose contracts or cause a reduction in revenues. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates and if we undertake acquisitions, they could increase our costs or liabilities and impair our revenue and operating results. One of our strategies is to pursue growth through acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of the acquisition or finance the acquisition on terms that are satisfactory to us. Negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management attention from day-to-day operations. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. We may encounter increased competition for acquisitions, which may increase the price of our acquisitions. We have completed several acquisitions of complementary businesses in recent years, and we continually evaluate opportunities to acquire new businesses as part of our ongoing strategy. We may continue to expand our operations through business acquisition. Our integration of acquisitions requires significant management time and financial resources. Any failure to properly integrate and manage businesses we acquire could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, acquired companies may not perform as well as we expect, and we may fail to realize anticipated benefits. In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ ownership and incur debt and other costs which may cause our quarterly operating results to vary significantly. If we are unable to successfully integrate companies we may acquire in the future, our revenue and operating results could suffer. The integration of such businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties (including incompatible accounting and information management systems), may absorb significant management attention and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our business. These difficulties of integration may require us to coordinate geographically dispersed organizations, integrate personnel with disparate business backgrounds and reconcile different corporate cultures. In certain acquisitions, federal acquisition regulations may require us to enter into government novation agreements, a potentially time-consuming process. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the anticipated synergies from these acquisitions, including our strategy of offering our services to clients of acquired companies to increase our revenue. We may experience increased attrition, including, but not limited to, key employees of the acquired companies, during and following the integration of acquired companies that could reduce our future revenue. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of identified intangible assets and goodwill, which could reduce our future reported earnings. Acquired companies may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. In particular, to the extent that prior owners of any acquired businesses or properties failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws or regulations, or failed to fulfill their contractual obligations to the Federal Government or other clients, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations and failures and may suffer reputational harm or otherwise be adversely affected. The discovery of any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions could cause us to incur additional expenses and cause a reduction in our operating profits. The Small Business Administration (SBA) has enacted new regulations which will require small businesses to recertify their size standard within thirty days of any sale or merger. It is highly likely that any company we may acquire will have small business contracts. These new regulations may impact our ability to retain all of the contracts of an acquired business. Our cash flow and profitability could be reduced if expenditures are incurred prior to the receipt of a contract. We provide various professional services and sometimes procure equipment and materials on behalf of our Federal Government customers under various contractual arrangements. From time to time, in order to ensure that we satisfy our customers’ delivery requirements and schedules, we may elect to commence services or initiate procurement in advance of receiving final authorization from the government customer or a prime contractor. In that event, if our government or prime contractor customers’ requirements change we may not be able to recover our costs. This could reduce anticipated earnings or result in a loss, negatively affecting our cash flow and profitability. A preference for minority-owned, small and small disadvantaged businesses could impact our ability to be a prime contractor on certain governmental procurements. As a result of an SBA set-aside program, the Federal Government may decide to restrict certain procurements to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small or small disadvantaged businesses. As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and would be restricted to a maximum of 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs. An increase in the amount of procurements under the SBA set-aside program may impact our ability to bid on new procurements or restrict our ability to recompete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. To the extent that any significant customer uses less of our services or terminates its relationship with us, our revenues could decline significantly. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could seriously harm our business. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, approximately 88% of our business was derived from contracts with government agencies and 12% was derived from commercial customers. None of our customers are obligated to purchase additional services from us. As a result, the volume of work that we perform for a specific customer is likely to vary from period to period, and a customer that is significant in one period may not use our services in a subsequent period. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes. The market for our services is characterized by rapid change and technological improvements. Failure to respond in a timely and cost effective way to these technological developments would result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenues from providing innovative engineering services and technical solutions that are based upon today’s leading technologies and that are capable of adapting to future technologies. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances of our customers, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. A significant number of our customers are government agencies which are subject to unique political and budgetary constraints and have special contracting requirements that may affect our ability to obtain other new government customers. A significant number of our customers are government agencies, principally DoD agencies. These agencies often do not set their own budgets and therefore have little control over the amount of money they can spend. In addition, these agencies experience political pressure that may dictate the manner in which they spend money. Due to political and budgetary processes and other scheduling delays that frequently occur in the contract or bidding process, some government agency orders may be canceled or substantially delayed, and the receipt of revenues or payments may be substantially delayed. In addition, future sales to government agencies will depend on our ability to meet government contracting requirements, certain of which may be onerous or impossible to meet, resulting in our inability to obtain particular contracts. Common requirements in government contracts include bonding, provisions permitting the purchasing agency to modify or terminate the contract at-will and without penalty and provisions permitting the agency to perform investigations or audits of our business practices. The U.S. Government has a program that encourages and sometimes requires large prime contractors to use small businesses. The U.S. Government restricts the competition on some contracts to qualifying small businesses. Some of our contracts and subcontracts have been awarded based on our eligibility as a small business. The definition of a small business depends on the type of product or service being provided. The U.S. Government uses North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes to classify the small business size standards for all industries. One of our primary NAICS codes was for engineering services, and beginning in fiscal year 2005, we no longer qualified as a small business using this code. However, we still qualify as a small business using several other NAICS codes. In addition, the small business contracts currently held by us do not terminate as a result of our no longer qualifying as a small business under any specific NAICS Code, and any option years on these contracts are also not affected by a change in small business status. Nevertheless, it is possible that our future revenues may be adversely impacted by our recent growth and consequent failure to qualify as a small business under certain NAICS codes. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect our revenue and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. As a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: ཉ fluctuations in revenue recognized on contracts; ཉ variability in demand for our services and solutions; ཉ commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; ཉ timing of award or performance incentive fee notices; ཉ timing of significant bid and proposal costs; ཉ variable purchasing patterns under the GSA Contracts, government wide acquisition contracts (MACs), blanket purchase agreements and other Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) contracts; ཉ strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs and joint ventures; ཉ strategic investments or changes in business strategy; ཉ changes in the extent to which we use subcontractors or the timing of receipt of invoices from subcontractors; ཉ seasonal fluctuations in our staff utilization rates; ཉ Federal Government shutdowns or temporary facility closings; ཉ fluctuations in demand for outsourced network services or engineering services; ཉ changes in our effective tax rate including changes in our judgment as to the necessity of the valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets, and ཉ the length of sales cycles. Reductions in revenue in a particular quarter could lead to lower profitability in that quarter because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed in the short-term. We may incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and may not be able to recognize corresponding revenue in that same quarter. We may also incur additional expenses when contracts expire, are terminated or are not renewed. In addition, contract awards of government agencies may be delayed or decreased as a result of failures of government budgets to gain congressional and administration approval in a timely manner. The Federal Government’s fiscal year ends September 30. If a federal budget for the next federal fiscal year has not been approved by that date in each year, our clients may have to suspend engagements that we are working on until a budget has been approved. Any such suspensions may reduce our revenue in our second or third fiscal quarter of that year. The Federal Government’s fiscal year end can also trigger increased purchase requests from clients for equipment and materials. Any increased purchase requests we receive as a result of the Federal Government’s fiscal year end would serve to increase our first or second quarter revenue. Our inability to adequately retain or protect our employees, customer relationships and proprietary technology could harm our ability to compete. Our future success and ability to compete depends in part upon our employees and their customer relationships, as well as our proprietary technology and trademarks, which we attempt to protect with a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret claims, as well as with our confidentiality procedures and employee contract provisions. These legal protections afford only limited protection and are time-consuming and expensive to obtain and/or maintain. Further, despite our efforts, we may not prevent third parties from soliciting our employees or customers or infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Our employees, customer relationships and intellectual property may not provide us with a competitive advantage adequate to prevent competitors from entering the markets for our products and services. Additionally, our competitors could independently develop non-infringing technologies that are competitive with, and equivalent or superior to, our technology. Monitoring infringement and/or misappropriation of intellectual property can be difficult, and it is possible that we would not detect an infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Even if we were to detect an infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights, litigation to enforce these rights would be costly and would cause us to divert financial and other resources from our normal business operations. The departure of certain key personnel could affect the financial condition of SYS due to the loss of their expertise and customer relationships. Certain key employees are intimately involved in our business and have day-to-day relationships with critical customers. Competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel or in retaining our existing personnel. A failure on our part to retain the services of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees with the exception of our CEO. We face intense competition from many competitors that have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced profitability or loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts from many other firms, including mid-tier federal contractors with specialized capabilities and large defense and IT services providers. Competition in our markets may increase as a result of a number of factors, such as the entrance of new or larger competitors, including those formed through alliances or consolidation. These competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, larger client bases and greater brand or name recognition than we do. These competitors could, among other things: · divert sales from us by winning very large-scale government contracts, a risk that is enhanced by the recent trend in government procurement practices to bundle services into larger contracts forcing us to charge lower prices; or · adversely affect our relationships with current clients, including our ability to continue to win competitively awarded engagements in which we are the incumbent. If we lose business to our competitors or are forced to lower our prices, our revenue and our operating profits could decline. In addition, we may face competition from our subcontractors who, from time-to-time, seek to obtain prime contractor status on contracts for which they currently serve as a subcontractor to us. If one or more of our current subcontractors are awarded prime contractor status on such contracts in the future, it could divert sales from us or could force us to charge lower prices, which could cause our margins to suffer. Accuracy of indirect billing rates is critical. Our provisional indirect billing rates are approved at least annually by the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) after being reviewed by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). These rates can differ from our actual indirect rates. We budget to have our actual indirect rates as close as possible to our government approved indirect rates at fiscal year end. Throughout the year, management assesses how these rates compare to forecasted rates for the year. If a variance is expected to exceed the amount to be billed, provisions for such variance are recognized at that time. For interim reporting purposes, SYS applies overhead and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of direct contract costs based on annual budgeted indirect expense rates. To the extent actual expenses for an interim period are greater than the budgeted rates, the variance is deferred if management believes it is probable that the variance will be absorbed by planned contract activity. This probability assessment includes projecting whether future indirect costs will be sufficiently less than the annual budgeted rates or can be absorbed by seeking increased billing rates applied on cost-plus-fee contracts. At the end of each interim reporting period, management assesses the recoverability of any amount deferred to determine if any portion should be charged to expense. In assessing the recoverability of variances deferred, management takes into consideration estimates of the amount of direct labor and other direct costs to be incurred in future interim periods, the feasibility of modifications for provisional billing rates, and the likelihood that an approved increase in provisional billing rates can be passed along to a customer. If assumptions about the probability of recovering deferred variances change, deferred amounts could be expensed and such expenses could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations. If we are unable to obtain or maintain security clearances, we may not be able to perform certain work. If we cannot obtain the necessary security clearances, we may not be able to perform classified work for the government and our revenues may be adversely affected. Certain government contracts require our facilities and some of our employees to maintain security clearances. If we lose or are unable to obtain security clearances required for a particular contract, the client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees working on a contract, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from that contract. Any such reduction in revenue, if not replaced with revenue from other contracts, could seriously harm our operating results. Security breaches in sensitive government systems could result in the loss of clients and negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop involve managing and protecting information involved in national security and other sensitive government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, could result in negative publicity and could prevent us from having further access to such critically sensitive systems or other similarly sensitive areas for other government clients. There are risks associated with our planned growth, such as a possible inability to manage our growth. We plan to grow our revenues and profits by adding to our existing customer base through organic growth and by the acquisition of other government services and government or commercial technology related companies. Over the past five years we have hired senior management personnel capable of establishing new business units within SYS. Rapid expansion through internal growth has required additional capital resources. We plan to continue this approach to building our business. There can be no assurances that such an approach will result in profitability in the future. We may incur impairment charges in our reporting entities which could harm our profitability. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we periodically review the carrying values of our goodwill to determine whether such carrying values exceed the fair market value. Our acquired companies are subject to annual review for goodwill impairment. If impairment testing indicates that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is deemed impaired. Accordingly, an impairment charge would be recognized for that reporting unit in the period identified, which could reduce our profitability. We have recorded significant non-cash charges in the past and will incur significant non-cash charges in the future related to the amortization of acquired technology and intangible assets from past acquisitions. We may also incur non-cash charges in future periods related to impairments of long-lived assets. During fiscal 2006, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately $1.3 million. To achieve profitability in the future, we must grow our revenue sufficiently to cover our business expenses. Our failure to achieve profitability in the future could cause our stock price to decline and may lead to additional impairment charges. We may be subject to additional income tax obligations arising from Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is currently examining the Company’s federal income tax return for the year ended June 30, 2004. The Company expects the IRS examination to be completed in fiscal 2008. The Company has reclassified an amount from deferred taxes to income taxes payable and accrued a provision for interest which it believes is adequate in relation to any potential adjustments. These amounts may be adjusted when there is more information available or an event occurs that indicates a change is required. We believe any further adjustment identified at the completion of the IRS examination will result in a further reclassification between current deferred taxes and income taxes payable. We have very limited funds upon which to rely for adjusting to business variations and for growing new businesses. While we are likely to look for new funding to assist in the acquisition of businesses, it is uncertain whether such funding will be available. Our substantial reliance on our revolving line of credit facility with Comerica Bank - California imposes certain limitations on us, such as complying with financial covenants. If we are to grow and expand our operations, we will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital. We may not be successful in raising additional capital on reasonable terms. If we do raise additional capital, our existing shareholders may incur substantial and immediate dilution. The net loss reported for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 may further impact our ability to raise capital. As of June 30, 2007, there was $3.1million of convertible notes payable that mature in February 2009. The notes are convertible into SYS common stock at the rate of $3.60 per share. The Company may have to use its funds to pay these notes when they mature if the holders do not elect to convert notes into common stock. We may violate financial covenants under our line of credit which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. SYS must maintain certain financial covenants, including tangible effective net worth, current assets to current liabilities, minimum tangible net worth and the ratio of cash flow to the current portion of long-term debt. As of June 30, 2007 the Company was in compliance with these covenants. We anticipate we will be in compliance with the modified covenants through the expiration date of the credit facility based on our operating budget for fiscal 2008. We intend to renew or replace the credit facility prior to its expiration date of December 31, 2008. If we are not able to remain in compliance with the financial covenants, the lender may require the Company to pay the outstanding balance and cancel the credit facility which would have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. Such a report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Auditing Standard No. 5 ("Standard No. 5") provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Management's assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation and therefore the report may be uniquely difficult to prepare, and our auditors may not agree with management's assessments. We are still performing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, which is both costly and challenging. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of June 30, 2008 (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any required. If we are not able to complete our assessment under Section 404 in a timely manner, we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of June 30, 2008. Risks Related to the Market for Our Stock There are a large number of shares that are available for future sale, and the sale of these shares may depress the market price of our common stock. As of June 30, 2007, we had issued 19,231,949 shares of common stock. Up to 2,131,700 shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of employee stock options at prices ranging from $1.23 to $4.90 per share, 868,000 shares were issuable upon the conversion of convertible notes at $3.60 per share, 313,401 shares were issuable upon the exercise of warrants at $2.50 per share, 50,000 shares were issuable upon the exercise of warrants at $3.85 per share, 110,000 shares were issuable upon the exercise of warrants at $4.00 per share, 20,000 shares were issuable upon the exercise of warrants at $2.44 per share and up to 3,475,613 shares were contingently issuable under earn-out provisions in various acquisition transactions. Sales of shares issued upon any conversion of our outstanding convertible notes or upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There is a limited market for our common stock which could impact your ability to sell your shares. Our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange. Trading in our common stock has been sporadic, and at present, there is a limited market for the stock. We cannot predict whether a stronger market will develop. Even if such a market does develop, it may not be sustained. There are no analysts currently covering the Company. Future sales of our common stock by existing shareholders under Rule 144 could decrease the trading price of our common stock. As of June 30, 2007, a total of 8,253,755 shares of our outstanding common stock were “restricted securities” and could be sold in the public markets only in compliance with Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act of 1933 or other applicable exemptions from registration. Rule 144 provides that a person holding restricted securities for a period of one year may thereafter sell, in brokerage transactions, an amount not exceeding in any three-month period the greater of either (i) 1% of the issuer’s outstanding common stock or (ii) the average weekly trading volume in the securities during a period of four calendar weeks immediately preceding the sale. Persons who are not affiliated with the issuer and who have held their restricted securities for at least two years are not subject to the volume limitation. Possible or actual sales of our common stock by present shareholders under Rule 144 could have a depressive effect on the price of our common stock. Our directors, executive officers and affiliated persons beneficially own a significant amount of our stock, and their interests could conflict with yours. As of June 30, 2007, our directors, executive officers and affiliated persons beneficially own approximately 27% of our common stock, including stock options exercisable within 60 days of June 30, 2007. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have a significant ability to: · elect or defeat the election of our directors; · amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; · effect or prevent a merger; sale of assets or other corporate transactions; and · control the outcome of any other matters submitted to the shareholders for vote. As a result of their ownership and positions, our directors, executive officers, and affiliated persons, collectively, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers and affiliated persons, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Management’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Risks Related to Our Industry Our revenue and operating profits could be adversely affected by significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of the Federal Government. We depend on continued Federal Government expenditures on intelligence, defense and other programs that we support. Accordingly, changes in Federal Government contracting policies could directly affect our financial performance. In addition, a change in presidential administrations, congressional majorities or in other senior Federal Government officials may negatively affect the rate at which the Federal Government purchases IT services. The overall U.S. defense budget declined from time-to-time in the late 1980s and the 1990s. While spending authorizations for intelligence and defense-related programs by the Federal Government have increased in recent years, future levels of expenditures and authorizations for those programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. Among the factors that could materially adversely affect us are: ཉ budgetary constraints affecting Federal Government spending generally, or specific departments or agencies in particular, and changes in fiscal policies or available funding; ཉ changes in Federal Government programs or requirements, including the increased use of small business providers; ཉ curtailment of the Federal Government’s use of professional services providers; ཉ the adoption of new laws or regulations; ཉ Federal Governmental shutdowns (such as that which occurred during the Federal Government’s 1996 fiscal year) and other potential delays in the government appropriations process; ཉ delays in the payment of our invoices by Federal Government payment offices due to problems with, or upgrades to, Federal Government information systems, or for other reasons; ཉ competition and consolidation in the IT industry; ཉ general economic conditions; and ཉ a reduction in spending or shift of expenditures from existing programs, and a failure of Congress to pass adequate supplemental appropriations to pay for an international conflict or related reconstruction efforts. These or other factors could cause Federal Governmental agencies, or prime contractors for which we are acting as a subcontractor, to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause our revenue and operating profits to decline. Many of our Federal Government clients spend their procurement budgets through multiple award contracts under which we are required to compete for post-award orders or for which we may not be eligible to compete and could limit our ability to win new contracts and grow revenue. Budgetary pressures and reforms in the procurement process have caused many Federal Government clients to increasingly purchase goods and services through ID/IQ contracts, the GSA Schedule Contracts and other multiple award and/or MAC vehicles. These contract vehicles have resulted in increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring us to make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under the relevant contract vehicle. The Federal Government’s ability to select multiple winners under multiple award schedule contracts, MACs, blanket purchase agreements and other ID/IQ contracts, as well as its right to award subsequent task orders among such multiple winners, means that there is no assurance that these multiple award contracts will result in the actual orders equal to the ceiling value, or result in any actual orders. We are only eligible to compete for work (task orders and delivery orders) as a prime contractor pursuant to MACs already awarded to us. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment could reduce our revenue. If the Federal Government elects to use a contract vehicle that we do not hold we will not be able to compete as a prime contractor. Our failure to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of Federal Government contracts, which affect how we do business with our clients and may impose added costs on us. Among the most significant laws and regulations are: ཉ the Federal Acquisition Regulations, and agency regulations supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of Federal Government contracts; ཉ the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; ཉ the Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based Federal Government contracts; and ཉ laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data. Moreover, we are subject to industrial security regulations of the DoD and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners’ access to classified information. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, our Federal Government clients could terminate or decide not to renew our contracts, and our ability to obtain new contracts could be impaired. The Federal Government may revise its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us. The Federal Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, such as cost accounting standards. It could also adopt new contracting methods relating to GSA contracts, MACs or other government-wide contracts, or adopt new standards for contract awards intended to achieve certain social or other policy objectives, such as establishing new set-aside programs for small or minority-owned businesses. In addition, the Federal Government may face restrictions from new legislation or regulations, as well as pressure from government employees and their unions, on the nature and amount of services the Federal Government may obtain from private contractors. These changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or contracts under which we currently perform when those contracts are put up for recompetition bids. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement, and, as a result, could harm our operating results. We derive significant revenue from contracts awarded through a competitive procurement process, which may require significant upfront bid and proposal costs that could negatively affect our operating results. We derive significant revenue from Federal Government contracts that are awarded through a competitive procurement process. We expect that most of the Federal Government business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive processes. Competitive procurements impose substantial costs and present a number of risks, including: ཉ the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us and could reduce our profitability; and ཉ the expense and delay that we may face if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive procedures, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of offers, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract, which could result in increased cost and reduced profitability. In addition, most Federal Government contract awards are subject to protest by competitors. If specified legal requirements are satisfied, these protests require the Federal Government agency to suspend the contractor’s performance of the newly awarded contract pending the outcome of the protest. These protests could also result in a requirement to resubmit bids for the contract or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. Unfavorable Federal Government audit results could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, and could harm our reputation and relationships with our clients and impair our ability to win new contracts. The Federal Government, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA reviews a contractor’s internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems, and the contractor’s compliance with such policies. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Adverse findings in a DCAA audit could materially affect our competitive position and result in a substantial adjustment to our revenue and profit. If a Federal Government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with Federal Government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation and competitive position if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If our reputation or relationship with Federal Government agencies were impaired, or if the Federal Government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and operating profit would decline. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Item 