ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. One should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known, and the following list should not be construed as an exhaustive list of all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. We may be unable to successfully execute our strategy to provide cost-effective solutions to meet the routine electronics needs and distinct electronics wants of our customers. To achieve our strategy, we have undertaken a variety of strategic initiatives. Our failure to successfully execute our strategy or the occurrence of any of the following events could have a material adverse effect on our business: · Our inability to keep our extensive store distribution system updated and conveniently located near our target customers · Our employees’ inability to provide solutions, answers, and information related to increasingly complex consumer electronics products · Our inability to recognize evolving consumer electronics trends and offer products that customers need and want Our inability to increase or maintain profitability in both our wireless and non-wireless platforms could adversely affect our results. A critical component of our business strategy is to improve our overall profitability. Our ability to increase profitable sales in existing stores may also be affected by: · Our success in attracting customers into our stores · Our ability to choose the correct mix of products to sell · Our ability to keep stores stocked with merchandise customers will purchase · Our ability to maintain fully-staffed stores and trained employees Any reductions or changes in the growth rate of the wireless industry or changes in the dynamics of the wireless communications industry could cause a material adverse effect on our gross profits and financial results. Sales of wireless handsets and the related commissions and residual income constitute approximately one-third of our total revenue. Consequently, changes in the wireless industry, such as the ones discussed below, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Lack of growth in the overall wireless industry tends to have a corresponding effect on our wireless sales. Because growth in the wireless industry is often driven by the adoption rate of new wireless handset technologies, the absence of these new technologies, or the lack of consumer interest in adopting these new technologies, could lead to slower growth or a decline in wireless industry profitability, as well as in our overall profitability. Another change in the wireless industry that could materially and adversely affect our profitability is wireless industry consolidation. Consolidation in the wireless industry could lead to a concentration of competitive strength, particularly competition from wireless carriers’ retail stores, and could, therefore, adversely affect our business as competitive levels increase. We may not be able to maintain our historical gross margin levels. Historically, we have maintained gross margin levels ranging from 47% to 50%. We may not be able to maintain these margin levels in the future due to various factors, including increased higher sales of lower margin products such as personal electronics products and third-party branded products. If sales of these lower margin items continue to increase and replace sales of higher margin items, our gross margin and overall gross profit levels will be adversely affected. Our competition is both intense and varied, and our failure to effectively compete could adversely affect our financial results. In the retail consumer electronics marketplace, the level of competition is intense. We compete primarily with traditional consumer electronics retail stores and, to a lesser extent, with alternative channels of distribution such as e-commerce, telephone shopping services and mail order. We also compete with wireless carriers’ retail presence, as discussed above. Changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy exerted by our current competitors and potential new competition could present us with difficulties in retaining existing customers, attracting new customers and maintaining our profit margins. In addition, some of our competitors may use strategies such as lower pricing, wider selection of products, larger store size, higher advertising intensity, improved store design, and more efficient sales methods. While we attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by focusing on the electronics specialty retail market, our business model may not enable us to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. Adverse changes in national or regional U.S. economic conditions could negatively affect our financial results. Adverse economic changes could have a significant negative impact on U.S. consumer spending, particularly discretionary spending for consumer electronics products, which, in turn, could directly affect our overall sales. Consumer confidence, recessionary and inflationary trends, equity market levels, consumer credit availability, interest rates, consumers’ disposable income and spending levels, energy prices, job growth and unemployment rates may impact the volume of customer traffic and level of sales in our locations. Negative trends of any of these economic conditions, whether national or regional in nature, could adversely affect our financial results, including our net sales and profitability. Our inability to effectively manage our inventory levels, particularly excess or inadequate amounts of inventory, could adversely affect our financial results. We source inventory both domestically and internationally, and our inventory levels are subject to a number of factors beyond our control. These factors, including technology advancements, reduced consumer spending and consumer disinterest in our product offerings, could lead to excess inventory levels. Additionally, we may not accurately assess appropriate product life cycles or end-of-life products, leaving us with excess inventory. To reduce these inventory levels, we may be required to lower our prices, adversely impacting our margin levels and our financial results. Alternatively, we may have inadequate inventory levels for particular items, including popular selling merchandise, due to factors such as unavailability of products from our vendors, import delays, labor unrest, untimely deliveries or the disruption of international, national or regional transportation systems. The occurrence of any of these factors on our inventory supply could adversely impact our financial results. Our inability to attract, retain and grow an effective management team or changes in the cost or availability of a suitable workforce to manage and support our operating strategies could cause our operating results to suffer. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a qualified management team and employees. Qualified individuals needed to fill necessary positions could be in short supply. The inability to recruit and retain such individuals could continue to result in high employee turnover at our stores and in our company overall, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, competition for qualified employees requires us to continually assess our compensation structure. Competition for qualified employees has required, and in the future could require, us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees, resulting in higher labor compensation expense. In addition, proposed changes in the federal minimum wage may adversely affect our compensation expense. Our inability to successfully identify and enter into relationships with developers of new technologies or the failure of these new technologies to be adopted by the market could impact our ability to increase or maintain our sales and profitability. Additionally, the absence of new services or products and product features in the merchandise categories we sell could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our ability to maintain and increase revenues depends, to a large extent, on the periodic introduction and availability of new products and technologies. If we fail to identify these new products and technologies, or if we fail to enter into relationships with their developers prior to widespread distribution within the market, our sales and gross margins could be adversely affected. Furthermore, it is possible that these new products or technologies will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance, also adversely affecting our sales and profitability. Finally, the lack of innovative consumer electronics products, features or services that can be effectively featured in our store model could also impact our ability to increase or maintain our sales and profitability. Failure to enter into, maintain and renew profitable relationships with providers of third-party branded products could adversely affect our sales and gross margins. Our large selection of third-party branded products makes up a significant portion of our overall sales. If we are unable to create, maintain or renew our relationships with the suppliers of these products, our sales and our gross margins could be adversely impacted. The occurrence of severe weather events or natural disasters could significantly damage or destroy outlets or prohibit consumers from traveling to our retail locations, especially during the peak winter holiday shopping season. If severe weather or a catastrophic natural event, such as a hurricane or earthquake, occurs in a particular region and damages or destroys a significant number of our stores in that area, our overall sales would be reduced accordingly. In addition, if severe weather, such as heavy snowfall or extreme temperatures, discourages or restricts customers in a particular region from traveling to our stores, our sales would also be adversely affected. If severe weather occurs during the fourth quarter holiday season, the adverse impact to our sales and gross profit could be even greater than at other times during the year because we generate a significant portion of our sales and gross profit during this period. We have contingent lease obligations related to our discontinued retail operations that, if realized, could materially and adversely affect our financial results. We have contingent liabilities related to retail leases of locations which were assigned to other businesses. The majority of these contingent liabilities relate to various lease obligations arising from leases assigned to CompUSA, Inc. as part of the sale of our Computer City, Inc. subsidiary to CompUSA in August 1998. In the event CompUSA or the other assignees, as applicable, are unable to fulfill these obligations, we would be responsible for rent due under the leases, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. Failure to comply with, or the additional implementation of, restrictions or regulations regarding the products and/or services we sell or changes in tax rules and regulations applicable to us, could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations including, but not limited to, the Fair Labor Standards Act and ERISA, each as amended, and regulations promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Department of Labor, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the Environmental Protection Agency. Failure to properly adhere to these and other applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of penalties or adverse legal judgments and could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Similarly, the cost of complying with newly-implemented laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Any potential tariffs imposed on products that we import from China, as well as any significant strengthening of China’s currency against the U.S. dollar, could reduce our gross margins and our overall profitability. We purchase a significant portion of our inventory from manufacturers located in China. Changes in trade regulations (including tariffs on imports) or the continued strengthening of the Chinese currency against the U.S. dollar could increase the cost of items we purchase, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins. Failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information could expose us to litigation, as well as materially damage our standing with our customers. Increasing costs associated with information security, including increased investments in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws, and costs resulting from consumer fraud could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially. Additionally, if a significant compromise in the security of our customer information, including personal identification data, were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition, and could increase the costs we incur to protect against such security breaches. Any terrorist activities in the U.S., as well as the international war on terror, could adversely affect our results of operations. A terrorist attack or series of attacks on the United States could have a significant adverse impact on the United States’ economy. This downturn in the economy could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility could cause greater uncertainty and cause the economy to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 