Item 1A Risk Factors in this report. Those risks and other factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 2 Form 10-K PART I ITEM 1. Business. (a) General Development of Business The Bombay Company, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries design, source and market a line of proprietary home furnishings that includes large furniture, occasional furniture, wall decor and decorative accessories that is timeless, classic and traditional in its styling through a network of retail locations throughout the United States and Canada, through its direct-to-customer operations and international licensing arrangements. Throughout this report, the terms "our," "we," "us," "Bombay" and “Company” refer to The Bombay Company, Inc., including its subsidiaries. The Company has a retail (52-53 week) fiscal year, which ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. The period ending February 3, 2007 (“Fiscal 2006”) covers a 53-week period. The periods ended January 28, 2006 (“Fiscal 2005”) and January 29, 2005 (“Fiscal 2004”) were both 52-week fiscal years. Bombay’s unique position in the market place is a result of our core competencies in design, sourcing and importing. We are a global importer, sourcing product from approximately 26 countries worldwide. Over 90% of the product has been designed or styled to Bombay’s specifications. Bombay operates primarily through two retail channels: store based, which consists of Bombay’s core offering (“core”), BombayKIDS and Bombay Outlet stores located in the U.S. and Canada; and direct-to-customer, which consists primarily of the Company’s website operations. Bombay core stores feature timeless and classically styled home furnishings including accessories, wall decor and furniture focusing on the bedroom, the home office, the dining room and the living room. BombayKIDS features a line of children’s furniture, textiles and accessories for children’s bedrooms and bathrooms. Bombay Outlet stores, which are located primarily in major outlet centers across the United States and in Canada, feature an assortment of home furnishings similar to the Bombay core store offering at lower price points. Additionally, Bombay Outlet stores provide a channel to liquidate overstocks of Bombay core and BombayKIDS product. In addition to our primary retail operations, Bombay has an international licensing business which contributed incrementally to profitability but which was not significant to our operations in Fiscal 2006. Unless specified otherwise, the discussions in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate to the Bombay retail operations, including Bombay core, BombayKIDS and Bombay Outlets, and direct-to-customer. A five-year summary of certain financial and operational information regarding the Company’s operations can be found in Part II, Item 6, Selected Financial Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, all references to “Notes” are to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 41. (b) Financial Information About Segments Bombay operates primarily in one business segment as a multi-channel retailer selling decorative home furnishings, furniture and related items. (c) Narrative Description of Business Merchandise Sales, Purchasing and Distribution Bombay operates stores, primarily located in regional shopping malls, certain secondary malls, open-air lifestyle centers, high-end strip centers and selected street locations. As of February 3, 2007, there were 384 stores in 40 states in the United States and 57 stores in eight Canadian provinces. We also market our products through our mail order operations in the United States and Canada and over the Internet at www.bombaycompany.com, www.bombaykids.com and www.bombayoutlet.com. 3 We offer a diverse selection of products consisting of approximately 6,200 stock keeping units (“SKUs”) of which over 90% of the product has been designed or styled to our specifications. Bombay’s proprietary product offers unique design, quality and exceptional value to a wide audience of consumers. We regularly update our merchandise assortment by introducing new products while discontinuing others. We have a fashion component to our product offerings, primarily in the accessory and wall decor areas, which is introduced seasonally. Other products with longer lives are discontinued as they approach the end of their life cycles. Approximately 3,000 new SKUs were introduced in Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005. Typically, new product introductions have been concentrated during our spring, fall and Christmas selling periods. The principal categories of merchandise include the following: · Furniture - We sell two broad categories of furniture as described below. Our furniture is manufactured by third party vendors located principally in China, Vietnam, India, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Indonesia. · Large Furniture - This category includes both wood and metal furniture focusing on the bedroom, home office, dining room and living room. Many of the larger items are displayed in stores, stocked in our distribution centers and can be delivered to stores typically within ten days. Large furniture represented 32%, 29% and 29% of total sales in Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively. · Occasional Furniture - This category includes wood and metal hall tables, end and coffee tables, plant stands and other small accent tables and curios that are ready-to-assemble, take home products. Occasional furniture represented 14%, 17% and 19% of total sales in Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively. · Accessories - This is the broadest category and represented 40% of total sales in Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004. This category includes both functional and decorative accessories including lamps, jewelry and memorabilia boxes, crystal, ceramics, frames and desktop items, textiles, floral, candles and holiday decor. These items are sourced from approximately 20 countries in Asia, North America and Europe. · Wall Decor - This category includes prints, mirrors and wall accessories that represented 14% in both Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005 and 12% in Fiscal 2004. This merchandise is sourced primarily from the United States and various countries in Asia. Merchandise is manufactured to Bombay’s specifications through a network of third party vendors principally located in Asia, Europe and the United States. Over 90% of production needs are sourced from foreign countries. We have branch offices in Taiwan, Malaysia, China and Vietnam, and use agents in various countries to locate prospective vendors, coordinate production requirements with manufacturers and provide technical expertise and quality control. We are not dependent on any particular supplier and have had long standing relationships with many of our vendors. Thirty-nine manufacturers in eight countries supply over 75% of our merchandise requirements. Approximately 60% of our production comes from China. Bombay has no long-term production agreements; however, we generally have agreements with major manufacturers that prohibit the production of our proprietary product for other parties. Additional manufacturing capacity and alternative sources, both domestic and international, continue to be added through new vendors and plant expansions by existing vendors. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. Also see Item 1A “Risk Factors” below. The product development process takes between three to twelve months, beginning with the original idea and concluding with the final product received at regional distribution centers in the United States and Canada. Depending on the category, the source country and whether an item is new or reordered, lead times generally vary from two to six months from order placement until arrival at the stores. Order times are slightly less for North American manufacturers principally due to shorter shipping times. Lead times may also be affected by seasonality factors especially in months when manufacturers are producing at, or near, peak capacity to meet seasonal demands. As a result, we strive to maintain an adequate inventory position in our distribution centers to ensure a sufficient supply of products to our customers. We have regional distribution centers in Fort Worth, Texas; McDonough, Georgia; Breinigsville, Pennsylvania; Mira Loma, California; Plainfield, Indiana and Brampton, Ontario. The distribution centers are strategically located and enable us to replenish the majority of store inventories within 48 hours of when the order is processed. We use dedicated trucks and less-than-truckload carriers to transport product from our distribution centers to the stores. Channels of Distribution RETAIL Stores and Real Estate Bombay operates a portfolio of mall, off-mall and outlet retail locations across the U.S. and Canada. All the stores are leased and located primarily in regional shopping malls, certain secondary shopping malls and select urban and suburban locations. In selecting store locations, Bombay’s real estate department conducts extensive analysis of potential store sites. The site selection is based on the existing or planned co-tenancy of the center, the size of the market and the demographics of the surrounding area. In evaluating a store location, placement of the store relative to retail traffic patterns and customer base of other retailers in the nearby vicinity are important considerations. Significant attention is given to visual merchandising opportunities to maximize the ability to display product in the most attractive setting. 4 Historically, Bombay stores were situated in mall locations. Over the past few years, as many mall leases were nearing their expiration dates, we began aggressively pursuing an off-mall strategy for new and relocated stores focusing on open-air lifestyle centers and high-end “power” strip centers (especially those with a concentration of home furnishing retailers). Such locations offer the Company the opportunity to lower occupancy costs, improve operating efficiencies and provide a more convenient shopping experience for the customer. Since 2002, as we migrated to off-mall locations, we typically opened new Bombay core stores in 4,000 to 5,000 square foot locations. Bombay mall stores are slightly smaller in size, currently averaging approximately 3,600 square feet. Coincident with the decision to diversify the real estate portfolio, we also made the decision to enter into the children’s home furnishings market. As part of the BombayKIDS expansion strategy, we opted to enter into leases that were typically twice as large (approx 8,800 square feet) as core stores, opening combination Bombay and BombayKIDS stores (“combo stores”) which had the two concepts operating side by side. Total combo stores at the end of Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004 were 33 stores, 58 stores and 47 stores, respectively. We are currently in the process of phasing out BombayKIDS as separate dedicated locations and such space is being reallocated to core merchandise. Bombay Outlet stores, which are located primarily in major outlet centers across the United States and to a lesser extent in Canada, average 4,300 square feet and feature an assortment of home furnishings similar to the Bombay store offering at lower price points. Additionally, Bombay Outlet stores provide a channel to liquidate overstocks of Bombay and BombayKIDS product. We view the use of outlets as an opportunity to increase sales to a different customer base, to assist in the orderly clearance of merchandise and to further leverage our design and sourcing capabilities. Following is a table summarizing our store activity and composition: February 3, 2007 January 28, 2006 January 29, 2005 Number of stores: Beginning of year…………………………………………… 498 502 471 Opened ……………………………………………………… 19 41 66 Closed* ……………………………………………………… 76 45 35 End of year…………………………………………………… 441 498 502 Store composition: Core…………………………………………………………… 357 388 404 Outlet ………………………………………………………… 47 48 47 BombayKIDS…………………………… ;…………………… 37 62 51 Store location: Mall…………………………………………………………… 195 235 273 Off-Mall ……………………………………………………… 199 215 182 Outlet ………………………………………………………… 47 48 47 Retail square footage (in thousands): Core……………………………̷ 0;…………………………… 1,608 1,578 1,608 Outlet…………………………………………………………. 200 206 200 BombayKIDS…………………………… ;…………………… 153 258 212 Total ……………………………………………………………. 1,961 2,042 2,020 *Fiscal 2006 closings include 26 BombayKIDS stores for which there was no reduction in overall square footage as the space previously dedicated to BombayKIDS product has been entirely or partially replaced with core product. Stores affected by this change are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation for one year. We plan to continue to rationalize our store base, renewing in existing top malls when possible, migrating stores to off-mall locations upon their lease expiration when the existing mall leases cannot be renewed on an economic basis and closing unprofitable locations. We have recently engaged a third party to assist with landlord negotiations for early lease terminations and restructuring of existing lease terms. During Fiscal 2007, we plan to migrate approximately five stores and open three new stores. We plan to close approximately 75 stores, including 33 BombayKIDS stores in combo formats for which there will be no corresponding reduction in square footage. We plan to end the year with approximately 373 stores. 5 Our average cost of leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and machinery for Bombay stores opened in Fiscal 2006 was approximately $570,000 per store, or $106 per square foot. Landlord construction allowances averaged approximately $198,000 per store or $37 per square foot which served to reduce the initial cash outlay. In addition, other investments, which consist primarily of inventory in the store location, averaged approximately $96,000 per large format store. During Fiscal 2006, average inventory physically in store was approximately 33% of the total inventory investment. As of February 3, 2007, 384 stores were operating in 40 states in the United States and 57 stores were operating in eight provinces in Canada as illustrated in the table below. Stores by Stores by USA State/Province State/Province Alabama 7 New York 18 Arkansas 1 Ohio 14 Arizona 6 Oklahoma 3 California 59 Oregon 3 Colorado 3 Pennsylvania 17 Connecticut 10 Rhode Island 1 Delaware 2 South Carolina 6 Florida 35 Tennessee 8 Georgia 17 Texas 45 Iowa 0 Utah 0 Idaho 1 Virginia 16 Illinois 14 Washington 4 Indiana 5 Wisconsin 3 Kansas 1 West Virginia 1 Kentucky 3 Louisiana 8 TOTAL 384 Massachusetts 6 Maryland 14 CANADA Michigan 10 Alberta 4 Minnesota 2 British Columbia 6 Missouri 5 Manitoba 1 Mississippi 1 New Brunswick 0 North Carolina 11 New Foundland 1 Nebraska 1 Nova Scotia 2 New Hampshire 2 Ontario 31 New Jersey 17 Quebec 11 New Mexico 1 Saskatoon 1 Nevada 3 57 6 Direct-to-Customer We conduct electronic commerce through our U.S. websites at http://www.bombaycompany.com for Bombay, http://www.bombaykids.com for BombayKIDS and http://www.bombayoutlet.com for Bombay Outlets. The Internet is an important tool not only for generating direct-to-customer sales but also for enabling the customer to conduct research on our product offering prior to making a store visit. The majority of our active SKU's are available for purchase on the websites although the actual number available at any point in time may vary based upon availability of inventory. We continue to pursue online marketing partnerships to broaden our reach to additional customers. Direct-to-customer revenue over the Internet was approximately $23.5 million, $15.9 million and $21.2 million in Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We also maintain websites supporting our international wholesale activities. Prior to Fiscal 2006, Bombay had a catalog business, which featured small catalogs, typically 8 to 64 pages, used primarily as a marketing vehicle to drive customers into stores and to our Internet sites. In Fiscal 2006, we reduced the number of catalogs but continued to utilize a limited amount of direct mail marketing. We maintain a call center to support our Internet and direct mail business. Total direct-to-customer revenue, including Internet and direct mail, represented 6.4%, 4.2% and 5.5% of total revenue in Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively. WHOLESALE Bailey Street Trading Company - During Fiscal 2000, we created Bailey Street Trading Company (“Bailey Street”), a wholly-owned subsidiary involved in the wholesale distribution of a proprietary line of accent furniture. On May 27, 2005, we completed the sale of the majority of the assets of Bailey Street to Bailey Street Holding Company, a newly-formed corporation, independent of Bombay. Under the terms of the agreement, Bombay received $4.7 million in cash in return for $1.1 million in accounts receivable and $2.3 million in inventories as well as intellectual property, equipment and facilities associated with the operations. Bailey Street Holding Company also assumed certain normal operating liabilities associated with the operations and Bombay agreed to provide certain transition services which have been fulfilled. Bombay retained approximately $2 million of inventory not included in the sale which was assimilated into the Bombay assortment and liquidated through its retail and Internet channels. As of the end of Fiscal 2005, Bombay had a remaining lease obligation related to the Bailey Street operations. The Company recorded a non-cash, pre-tax charge of approximately $0.9 million in Fiscal 2005, which represents the net present value of the difference between the remainder of the lease obligation less the estimated net sublet income based upon current market rates and assuming a subtenant within twelve months. During Fiscal 2006, the Company paid $793,000 in lease related payments to the landlord. We also entered into lease termination negotiations with the landlord and signed an agreement in February 2007. Fiscal 2006 operating results reflect an additional charge of $248,000 as a result of the settlement. The balance of the liability recorded in connection with the lease obligation as of February 3, 2007 was $363,000. Total revenue for Bailey Street was $6.9 million and $15.1 million during Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively. International - Bombay International, Inc. (“International”) is our international licensing and distribution channel. International operations have extended to 19 licensed stores as of the end of Fiscal 2006, operating in the Middle East, Eastern Europe and the Caribbean. Total revenue from International was $2.8 million, $2.4 million and $3.8 million during Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In the short-term, we plan to continue the international development through licensing and distribution agreements in existing markets or with current partners. During Fiscal 2007, approximately three additional International licensed stores are planned to be opened by our licensees. Intangibles We own a number of the trademarks, service marks, copyright registrations and design patents used in our business, including federal trademark registrations for the marks The Bombay Companyâ, Bombayâ, the palm tree logo and BombayKIDSâ. Our trademarks are also registered or are the subject of pending applications in a number of foreign countries. Each trademark registration is renewable indefinitely if the mark is still in use at the time of renewal. We believe that our intangible property rights have significant value, enhance the Bombayâ brand and are instrumental in our ability to create, sustain demand for and market our product. From time to time, we discover products in the marketplace that are counterfeit reproductions of our product or that otherwise infringe upon our trademark, copyright, trade dress or design rights. We have and will continue to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights as necessary. 7 Seasonality Operating results are subject to seasonal variation. Historically, the largest portion of sales and substantially all of the operating income occur in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the Christmas season. Inventory balances are generally built to their highest levels prior to the Christmas selling season. Competition The home furnishings and decorative accessories market is highly fragmented and very competitive. We face competition from furniture stores, department stores, mass merchants, warehouse clubs and other specialty retailers, including national chains and independent retailers. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of style, selection, quality and value of merchandise. Employees We have approximately 4,500 employees, including approximately 2,900 part-time employees, and are not a party to any union contract. Employee relations are considered to be good. (d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas Bombay operates in one industry segment, specialty retailing. Greater than 90% of all revenue is from the sale of home furnishings and accessories through retail stores in the United States and Canada. The remaining portion of our revenue results from the sale of home furnishings and accessories through our wholesale operations, direct-to-customer retail operations and related shipping charges. Our wholesale and direct-to-customer operations have been immaterial to our operations and financial results to date. Long-lived assets include all non-current assets except deferred taxes. The following table shows net revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area (in thousands): Year Ended February 3, 2007 January 28, 2006 January 29, 2005 Net revenue: United States……………………………………………… $ 450,223 $ 487,704 $ 505,499 Canada …………………………………………………… 86,102 77,370 70,588 Total …………………………………………………… $ 536,325 $ 565,074 $ 576,087 Long-lived assets: United States……………………………………………… $ 64,650 $ 80,024 Canada …………………………………………………… 11,276 10,680 Total …………………………………………………… $ 75,926 $ 90,704 (e) Available Information We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can be inspected and copied at: SEC Public Reference Room 100 F Street, N.E. Room 1580 Washington, D.C. 20549-0213 8 You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. You may also obtain copies of any material we have filed with the SEC by mail at prescribed rates from: Public Reference Section Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549-0213 You may obtain these materials electronically by accessing the SEC’s home page on the Internet at: http://www.sec.gov In addition, we make available, free of charge on our Internet Web site, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as our proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may review these documents, under the heading “Investor Relations,” by accessing our corporate Web site: http://www.bombaycompany.com A copy of the Company’s Corporate Governance Practices, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Whistle-blower Protection Policy and the charters of the Audit and Finance Committee, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee and the Governance and Nominations Committee are also posted on the Company’s website in the Investor Relations section. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The value of an investment in Bombay involves significant risks and uncertainties. One should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. We may not have sufficient liquidity to execute our transformation strategy. The Company has experienced a three-year decline in operational and financial performance. We have developed a transformation strategy to streamline operations, clarify Bombay’s positioning to consumers, increase profitability and situate the Company for re-emergence as a highly competitive home furnishings retailer. To effect this transformation, we are currently executing a three-phase plan that includes implementing new processes to stabilize the operations, controlling costs to improve liquidity, and right-sizing the business. The difficulty experienced during Fiscal 2005 in the specialty hardlines sector, particularly as it relates to retailers selling lower-priced and moderately-priced merchandise, continued through Fiscal 2006. As a result, we experienced a decline in revenue and an increase in operating losses, and used cash in operations. While the Company negotiated a more flexible credit facility that significantly increases liquidity relative to its prior facility, depending on the magnitude and duration of the downturn and the amount of capital required to reposition the Company, cash flow from operations, funds available through the Company’s existing credit facility and other potential funding sources that might be available may not be sufficient to cover working capital needs required to execute our strategy. In addition, concerns about liquidity could adversely impact relationships with our suppliers. As a result, we might need to raise additional funds through external sources. The Company is currently in negotiations with potential lenders on a supplemental facility that would provide additional liquidity, if successfully completed. The Board of Directors has also engaged an investment banking firm and is evaluating a range of strategic alternatives with the goal of preserving and creating value for the benefit of stockholders and creditors. Alternatives include pursuing our current strategy as an independent public company, seeking a strategic partner or acquirer, seeking a financial partner to make a substantial equity investment, or some combination of the foregoing. We cannot provide assurance that additional sources of funds will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. If adequate funds are not available, our operating flexibility will be significantly impaired. We are dependent on external funding sources, including the terms of our revolving credit facility, which may not make available to us sufficient funds when we need them. We have significantly relied and may rely in the future on external funding sources to finance our operations and growth. If we continue to use cash in our operations, our external funding requirements could be increased to levels above those currently available to us. While we currently have in place a $125 million revolving credit facility, the amount available under this facility is limited by (i) the availability of eligible collateral to support the borrowing base and reserves as established under the terms of the revolving credit facility and (ii) a minimum availability requirement equal to 7.5% of the applicable borrowing base. The weakening of, or other adverse developments concerning our sales performance or adverse developments concerning the availability of credit under our revolving credit facility due to covenant limitations or other factors, could limit the amount of funds available to us. 9 Our revolving credit facility also requires, from time to time and as a condition for additional borrowing, that no default exists and that we represent and warrant, among other things, that there has been no material adverse change in our business, operations, results of operations, assets, liabilities, or financial condition; no material impairment of our ability to perform our obligations or of the lenders’ ability to enforce the obligations or realize upon the collateral; and no material impairment of the validity, enforceability, attachment, perfection or priority of the lenders’ liens against the collateral. We believe that no material adverse change has occurred. Moreover, our lenders have not notified us that a material adverse effect existed on February 3, 2007 or that a material adverse change has since occurred. Accordingly, we believe that we will continue to be able to borrow under the revolving credit facility subject to its terms and conditions of availability in order to fund our operations. However, we cannot be certain that a material adverse change will not occur in the future. If a material adverse change does occur, we will be unable to make this representation and warranty. Failing to make this representation and warranty could trigger a default under the terms of the credit facility, and our ability to make any new borrowings from our lenders could be restricted or precluded. We may experience cash flow shortfalls in the future and we may otherwise require additional external funding beyond the amounts available under our revolving credit facility. However, we may not able to raise funds on acceptable terms, if at all, and any future financing may be dilutive to holders of our capital stock. In the event that we are unable to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms or otherwise, we may be unable, or determine not, to take advantage of new opportunities or defer taking other actions that otherwise may be important to our operations. We also may need to raise funds to respond to changing business conditions or unanticipated competitive pressures. If we fail to raise sufficient additional funds, we may be required to delay or abandon some of our planned future expenditures or aspects of our current operations. Because our business requires a substantial level of liquidity, we are dependent upon a revolving credit facility with certain restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility. Our business requires substantial liquidity in order to finance inventory purchases, the employment of sales personnel for the peak holiday period, advertising costs for the holiday buying season, and other similar advance expenses. Covenants under our revolving credit facility include, among others, ones that limit our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, make investments, consolidate, merge or acquire other businesses, sell assets, pay dividends or other distributions, and enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, advances under our revolving credit facility are limited by a borrowing base and minimum availability requirements as described above. Although we have been able to obtain incremental advances when needed to provide the capital required for our business to date, there may be times in the future when the terms and conditions of availability under our revolving credit, facility will limit our ability to access working capital as and to the extent we require for the operation of our business, potentially having an adverse affect on our operating results. The revolving credit facility includes a borrowing base formula to address the availability of credit at any given time based upon numerous factors, including the value of eligible inventory, accounts receivable and real estate net of certain reserves, subject to an overall aggregate cap on borrowings. The underlying collateral is subject to reappraisal by an independent third party and the value is adjusted based upon the results of such appraisals. Consequently, for purposes of the borrowing base formula, changes in the value of eligible inventory, accounts receivable and real estate may further limit our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility. As noted above, the revolving credit facility is also subject to a minimum availability requirement. We have drawn upon the revolving credit facility in the past and we expect to draw upon it in the future. Failure to comply with the terms of the revolving credit facility would entitle the secured lenders to prevent us from further borrowing, and upon acceleration by the lenders, they would be entitled to begin foreclosure procedures against our assets, including inventory, accounts receivable, and real estate. The secured lenders would then be repaid from the proceeds of such foreclosure proceedings, using all such available assets. Only after such repayment and the payment of any other secured and unsecured creditors would the holders of our capital stock receive any proceeds from the liquidation of our assets. Our ability to comply with the terms of the revolving credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control. Future increases in interest and other expenses may impact our future operations. High levels of interest and other expenses have had in the past, and could have in the future, negative effects on our operations. An increase in the variable interest rate under our revolving credit facility, coupled with an increase in our outstanding debt, could result in material amounts otherwise available for other business purposes being used to pay for interest. 10 Our ability to continue to meet our future debt and other obligations and to minimize our average debt level depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future, which may or may not be available to us on acceptable terms. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future financings will be available to provide sufficient proceeds to meet our needs or obligations. Our competition is both intense and varied, and our failure to effectively compete could adversely affect our prospects. We operate in an industry segment that is becoming increasingly competitive with mass merchants and warehouse clubs entering the market in a more significant way. We also compete with traditional furniture stores, other specialty retailers, department stores and, to a lesser extent, with alternative channels of distribution such as e-commerce and mail order. Changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy exerted by our current competitors and potential new competition could present us with difficulties in retaining existing customers, attracting new customers and maintaining our profit margins. In addition, our business may be further affected by a decline in the discretionary income of our customer base. Rising interest rates and higher fuel costs may be particularly detrimental to our business because our targeted customer has an annual household income of less than $100,000. We may continue to experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing stores. Since Fiscal 2002, annual comparable store sales trends have fluctuated from a 12% decline to a 13% increase with trends for the past three fiscal years being negative. Various factors affect comparable store sales, including the number of stores we open, close or expand in any period, the general retail sales environment; consumer preferences and buying trends; changes in sales mix among distribution channels; our ability to efficiently source and distribute products; changes in our merchandise mix; competition; current local and global economic conditions; energy prices, the timing of our releases of new merchandise and promotional events; the success of our marketing programs; potential disruption to our customer base as we migrate to off-mall locations; and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods. Our ability to maintain and improve our comparable store sales results depends in large part on improving our forecasting of customer demand and preferences and adjusting our inventory levels accordingly; increasing the number of transactions in each store; selecting effective marketing techniques; providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base; and using more effective pricing strategies. Failure to meet the comparable store sales expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. We may not be able execute our real estate strategy. As part of our transformation strategy, we plan to continue to rationalize our store base, migrating stores to off-mall locations upon lease expirations when the existing mall leases cannot be renewed on an economic basis, and closing unprofitable stores. Our ability to execute this strategy is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to: · negotiate mutually acceptable terms to exit certain underperforming stores prior to lease expiration; · locate [or renew] store sites and negotiate acceptable lease terms; · construct or refurbish stores; and · recruit, hire, train and retain skilled employees. The Company has recently engaged a third party consultant to assist with landlord negotiations for early lease terminations and restructuring of existing lease terms. The success of our real estate strategy will also depend on the availability of adequate capital for lease termination fees and constructing or refurbishing stores and purchasing inventory. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, we may not be able to rationalize our real estate portfolio as planned. We may not be able to effectively manage our inventory levels, particularly excess or inadequate amounts of inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. We source inventory both internationally and domestically, and our inventory levels are subject to a number of factors beyond our control. These factors, including reduced consumer spending and lack of consumer interest in our product offerings, could lead to excess inventory levels. Additionally, we may not assess appropriate product life cycles or end-of-life products, leaving us with excess inventory. To reduce these inventory levels, we may be required to lower our prices, adversely affecting our gross profit margins and our operating results. Alternatively, we may have inadequate inventory levels for particular items, including popular merchandise, due to factors such as lack of liquidity, unavailability of products from our vendors, import delays, [untimely deliveries] or the disruption of our international, national or regional transportation systems. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely impact our operating results. 11 The potential strengthening of China’s currency against the U.S. dollar could reduce our gross profit margins and our overall profitability. We purchase a significant portion of our inventory from manufacturers located in China, whose currency has strengthened significantly against the U.S. dollar recently. The continued strengthening of the Chinese currency against the U.S. dollar could increase the cost of items we purchase, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our sales and gross profit margins and our operating results. Any tariffs imposed on products that we import, as well as any new U.S. or foreign government regulations related to product sourcing, could reduce our gross profit margins and our operating results. Over 90% of the products we sell are imported. As a result, our business is subject to U.S. and foreign government regulations and legislation related to product sourcing. New trade regulations, including additional duties, quotas, tariffs and other restrictions, may affect the sourcing of our products in the future. Additional duties, including revisions to antidumping and countervailing duty programs, quotas, tariffs or other restrictions, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to attract, retain and grow an effective management team, and changes in the cost or availability of a suitable workforce to manage and support our operating strategies could cause our operating results to suffer. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a qualified management team and employees. The inability to recruit and retain such individuals could result in high employee turnover at our stores and in our Company overall, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Additionally, competition for qualified employees requires us to continually assess our compensation structure. Competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees, resulting in higher labor compensation expense. Various types of employee related claims may be raised from time to time. We may also experience union organizing activity in currently non-union distribution facilities, stores and in our Company overall. Union organizing activity may result in work slowdowns or stoppages and higher labor costs, which would harm our business and operating results. The occurrence of severe weather events or natural disasters could significantly damage or destroy locations or prohibit consumers from traveling to our retail stores, especially during the peak winter holiday shopping season. If severe weather, such as a large hurricane, tornado or earthquake, occurs in a particular region and damages or destroys a significant number of our stores in that area, our overall sales would be reduced accordingly. In addition, if severe weather, such as heavy snowfall or extreme temperatures, discourages or restricts customers in a particular region from traveling to our stores, our sales would also be adversely affected. If severe weather occurs during the fourth quarter holiday season, the adverse impact to our sales could be even greater than at other times during the year because we generate a significant portion of our sales during this period. Changes to estimates related to our property and equipment, or results that are lower than our current estimates at certain store locations, may cause us to incur non-cash impairment charges. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for certain of our stores where current cash flows from operations are negative. Impairment results when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining life of the lease. These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of future results, often up to ten years into the future. If these estimates or projections prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to take impairment charges on certain of these stores, which would adversely affect our operating results. Failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information could expose us to litigation, as well as materially damage our standing with our customers. Increasing costs associated with information security, including increased investments in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws, and costs resulting from consumer fraud could cause our business and operating results to suffer materially. Additionally, if a significant compromise in the security of our customer information, including personal identification data, were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition, and could increase the costs we incur to protect against such security breaches. 12 We may be vulnerable to disruptions in our business due to reliance on technology. We rely upon our existing information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, warehousing, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandise planning and replenishment, as well as various financial functions. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · fire, flood and other natural disasters; · power loss, computer system failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures; · operator negligence and improper operation by or supervision of employees; · computer viruses, physical or electronic loss of data , security breaches, misappropriation of computer resources and similar events; and · lack of system maintenance, including required fixes, upgrades or enhancements. Any disruption in our information systems could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Any additional terrorist activities in the U.S., as well as the international war on terror, may adversely affect our sales and our stock price. An additional terrorist attack or series of attacks on the United States could have a significant adverse impact on the United States’ economy. This downturn in the economy could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our operating results. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility could cause greater uncertainty and cause the economy to suffer in ways that we cannot predict. We may not be able to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices, which could have a negative impact on our business. Insurance costs continue to be volatile, affected by natural catastrophes, concern about terrorism and financial irregularities and other fraud at publicly-traded companies. We believe that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management and insurance costs may increase substantially in the future. In addition, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with earthquakes or terrorist attacks, we might determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices. Therefore, we might choose to forego or limit our purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self-insure one or more types or levels of risks. If we suffer a substantial loss that is not covered by commercial insurance, the loss and attendant expenses could negatively impact our business and operating results. We may not be able or may fail to protect our intellectual property, which would adversely impact on our business. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, trade dress rights, domain names and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our sales. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. In addition, the costs of defending our intellectual property may adversely affect our operating results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 13 ITEM 