ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. One should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known, and the following list should not be construed as an exhaustive list of all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. If any of the events described below were to occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully execute our strategy to provide cost-effective solutions to meet the routine consumer electronics needs and distinct consumer electronics wants of our customers. To achieve our strategy, we have undertaken a variety of strategic initiatives. Our failure to successfully execute our strategy or the occurrence of certain events, including the following, could materially adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our comparable store sales and our business generally: · Our inability to recognize evolving consumer electronics trends and offer products that our target customers need or want · Our employees’ inability to provide solutions, answers, and information related to increasingly complex consumer electronics products · Our inability to keep our extensive store distribution system updated and conveniently located near our customers Adverse changes in national and world-wide economic conditions could negatively affect our business. The continued uncertainty in the economy could have a significant negative effect on U.S. consumer spending, particularly discretionary spending for consumer electronics products, which, in turn, could directly affect our sales. Consumer confidence, recessionary and inflationary trends, equity market levels, consumer credit availability, interest rates, consumers’ disposable income and spending levels, energy prices, job growth, income tax rates and unemployment rates may affect the volume of customer traffic and level of sales in our locations. Continued negative trends of any of these economic conditions, whether national or regional in nature, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 5 In addition, potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets could have a significant effect on our ability to access the U.S. and global capital and credit markets, if needed. These potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets could materially adversely affect our ability to borrow under our credit facility, or materially adversely affect the banks that underwrote our credit facility. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit, and our credit ratings. If needed, we may not be able to successfully obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to increase or maintain profitability of our operations could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A critical component of our business strategy is to improve our overall profitability. Our ability to increase profitable sales in existing retail locations may be affected by: · Our ability to offer and sell products with sufficient gross profit to improve our overall profitability · Our success in attracting customers into our retail locations · Our ability to choose the correct mix of products to sell · Our ability to keep our retail locations stocked with merchandise customers will purchase · Our ability to maintain fully-staffed retail locations with appropriately trained employees · Our ability to remain relevant to the consumer · Our ability to sustain existing retail channels such as our Target Mobile centers Our products and services must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to frequent change. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in consumer preferences relating to consumer electronics. If we fail to identify and respond to these trends in a timely manner, our sales may decline. In addition, consumer spending remains uncertain, which makes it more challenging for us to maintain or grow our operating income. As a result, we must continue to control our expense structure. Failure to manage our labor and benefit rates, advertising and marketing expenses, or other store expenses could delay or prevent us from achieving increased profitability or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any reductions or changes in the growth rate of the wireless industry or other changes in the dynamics of the industry could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Sales of wireless handsets and the related commissions and residual income constitute a majority of our total revenue. Consequently, changes in the wireless industry, such as those discussed below, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Lack of growth in the wireless industry tends to have a corresponding effect on our wireless sales. Wireless handsets are subject to significant technological changes, and it is possible that new products will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance or will be supplanted by alternative products and technologies that do not offer us a similar sales opportunity or are sold at lower price points or margins. Because growth in the wireless industry is often driven by the adoption rate of new wireless handset and wireless service technologies, the absence of these new technologies, our suppliers not providing us with these new technologies, or the lack of consumer interest in adopting these new technologies, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Another change in the wireless industry that could materially adversely affect our business is wireless industry consolidation. Consolidation in the wireless industry could lead to a concentration of competitive strength within a few wireless carriers, which could materially adversely affect our business if our ability to obtain competitive offerings from our wireless suppliers is reduced or if competition increases from wireless carrier stores or other retailers. Our competition is both intense and varied, and our failure to effectively compete could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the retail consumer electronics marketplace, the level of competition is intense. We compete with consumer electronics retail stores as well as big-box retailers, large specialty retailers, discount and warehouse retailers, and Internet retailers. We also compete with wireless carriers’ retail presence, as discussed above. Some of these competitors are large, have great market presence, and possess significant financial and other resources, which may provide them with competitive advantages over us. Changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy exerted by our current and potential competitors could present us with difficulties in retaining and attracting customers. In addition, pressure from our competitors could require us to reduce prices or increase our costs in one product category or across all our product categories. 6 Our competitors may use strategies such as lower pricing, value-added services, wider selection of products, larger store size, higher advertising intensity, improved store design, and more efficient sales methods. Some of our competitors may be able to offer innovative, technologically superior, or more desirable products and services that are not available to us, are available in limited quantities, or become available to us after the demand for the products and services has declined. While we attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by focusing on the electronics specialty retail market, our business model may not enable us to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. As a result of this competition, we may experience lower sales, margins or profitability, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon our relationships with a limited number of name brand product and service providers, and our inability to create, maintain and renew relationships with these parties on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our net sales and operating revenues is attributable to a limited number of name brand products and service providers. The concentration of revenue in our mobility platform means that our revenue is to a significant degree dependent upon a limited number of service providers such as AT&T, Sprint, and Verizon and related product suppliers such as Apple, HTC and Samsung. In the aggregate, these relationships have or are expected to have a significant effect on both our operations and financial strategy. If we are unable to create, maintain or renew our relationships with such third parties on favorable terms or at all, or if these third parties limit or disrupt the supply of their products or services to us, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our wireless service providers make operational changes from time to time that adversely affect our business and over which we have little, if any, influence. They may not inform us of such a change or may do so only after it is too late for us to adequately predict and plan for the consequences the change will have on our business. The information they provide to us about these changes may be incomplete or inaccurate. Examples of these changes include changes to customer credit requirements, changes to the service providers’ service agreements with their customers on issues such as handset upgrade eligibility and contract renewal terms, and other changes that affect our mobility business. If we are not timely, accurately, and adequately informed about these changes or are unable to effectively mitigate the adverse impact of these changes on our business, these changes could materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Our inability to increase or maintain our gross margin levels could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to increase or maintain our gross margin levels due to various factors, including increased sales of lower margin products or declines in average selling prices of key products. If sales of lower margin items continue to become a larger percentage of our business without an overall growth in our sales, our gross profit could be materially adversely affected. Our inability to collect receivables from our vendors and service providers could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain significant receivable balances from various vendors and service providers such as Sprint, AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile consisting of commissions and other funds related to these relationships. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our net receivables from vendors and service providers were $273.8 million and $291.0 million, respectively. The average payment term for these receivable balances is approximately 45 days. We do not factor these receivables. Changes in the financial condition of one or more of these vendors or service providers could cause a delay or failure in collecting these receivable balances. A significant delay or failure in collecting these receivable balances could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to manage our inventory levels effectively, particularly excess or inadequate amounts of inventory, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We source inventory both domestically and internationally, and our inventory levels are subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors, including technology advancements, vendor-imposed quantity purchasing requirements, reduced consumer spending and consumer disinterest in our product offerings, could lead to excess inventory levels. Additionally, we may not accurately assess product life cycles, leaving us with excess inventory. To reduce this excess inventory, we may be required to lower our prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Alternatively, we may have inadequate inventory levels for particular items, including popular merchandise, due to factors such as unanticipated high demand for certain products, unavailability of products from our vendors, import delays, labor unrest, untimely deliveries, or the disruption of international, national or regional transportation systems. The effect of the occurrence of any of these factors on our inventory supply could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 7 Our inability to attract and retain an effective management team or changes in the cost or availability of a suitable workforce to manage and support our strategies could materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a qualified management team and other employees. Qualified individuals needed to fill necessary positions could be in short supply. The inability to recruit and retain such individuals on a continuous basis could result in high employee turnover at our stores and in our company generally, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, competition for qualified employees requires us to continually assess our compensation structure. Competition for qualified employees has required, and in the future could require, us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees, resulting in higher labor compensation expense. In addition, mandated changes in minimum wage or health care reform may materially increase our employee-related costs. Our inability to identify and enter into relationships with developers of new technologies successfully or the failure of these new technologies to be adopted by the market could materially adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain our sales and profitability. Additionally, the absence of new services or products and product features in the categories we sell could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to maintain and increase revenues depends, to a large extent, on the periodic introduction and availability of new products, services and technologies. If we fail to identify these new products, services and technologies, or if we fail to enter into relationships with their developers prior to widespread distribution within the market, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Any new products, services or technologies we identify may have a limited sales life. Furthermore, it is possible that new products, services or technologies will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance, also materially adversely affecting our results of operation and financial condition. Finally, the lack of innovative consumer electronics products, features or services that can be effectively featured in our retail locations could also materially adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain our sales and profitability. The occurrence of severe weather events or natural disasters could significantly damage or destroy our retail locations, could prohibit consumers from traveling to our retail locations, or could prevent us from resupplying our retail locations or distribution centers, especially during the peak winter holiday shopping season. If severe weather or a catastrophic natural event, such as a hurricane or earthquake, occurs in a particular region and damages or destroys a significant number of our retail locations in that area, our sales could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if severe weather, such as heavy snowfall or extreme temperatures, discourages or restricts customers in a particular region from traveling to our retail locations, our sales could also be materially adversely affected. If severe weather occurs during the fourth quarter holiday season, the adverse effect on our sales could be even greater than at other times during the year because we generate a disproportionate amount of our sales during this period. Failure to comply with, or the additional implementation of, laws, rules, and regulations regarding our business could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state, and local laws, rules and regulations including, but not limited to, the Fair Labor Standards Act and ERISA, each as amended, and regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, SEC, Internal Revenue Service, Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and Environmental Protection Agency. Failure to properly adhere to these and other applicable laws, rules and regulations could result in the imposition of penalties or adverse legal judgments and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, the cost of complying with newly-implemented laws, rules and regulations could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We utilize a large number of suppliers located in various parts of the world to obtain private brand merchandise and other products. If any of our key vendors fail to supply us with products, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers, and our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. We purchase a significant portion of our inventory from manufacturers located in China. Changes in trade regulations (including tariffs on imports) could increase the cost of those items. Although our purchases are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in the Chinese currency exchange rate against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies could cause our vendors to increase the prices of items we purchase from them. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Our ability to find qualified vendors that meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the United States. Merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, trade restrictions, difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in foreign countries, work stoppages, transportation capacity and costs, tariffs, political or financial instability, foreign currency exchange rates, monetary, tax and fiscal policies, inflation, deflation, outbreak of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. Concerns regarding the safety of products and services that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products and services from us, even if the basis for the concern is outside our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. These and other issues affecting our vendors could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our business is heavily dependent upon information systems, which could result in higher maintenance costs and business disruption. Our business is heavily dependent upon information systems, given the number of individual transactions we process each year. Our information systems include an in-store point-of-sale system that helps us track sales performance, inventory replenishment, product availability, product margin and customer information. These systems are complex and require integration with each other, with some of our service providers, and with our business processes, which may increase the risk of disruption. Our information systems are also subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors by our employees. If we encounter damage to our systems, difficulty implementing new systems, a security breach of our systems, or difficulty maintaining and upgrading current systems, our business operations could be disrupted, our sales could decline, and our expenses could increase. Failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information could materially damage our standing with our customers and expose us to litigation. Increasing costs associated with information security, including increased investments in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws, and costs resulting from consumer fraud could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if a significant compromise in the security of our customer information, including personal identification data, were to occur, it could materially adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and financial condition, and could increase the costs we incur to protect against such security breaches. We are subject to other litigation risks and may face liabilities as a result of allegations and negative publicity. Our operations expose us to litigation risks, such as class action lawsuits involving employees, consumers and shareholders. For example, from time to time putative class actions have been brought against us relating to various labor matters. Defending against lawsuits and other proceedings may involve significant expense and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters. In addition, if any lawsuits were brought against us and resulted in a finding of substantial legal liability, it could cause significant reputational harm to us and otherwise materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We conduct business outside the United States, which presents potential risks. We have offices and assets, and generate a portion of our revenue, in Mexico, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Part of our growth strategy is to expand our international business because we believe the growth rates and the opportunity to implement operating improvements may be greater than those typically achievable in the United States. International operations entail significant risks and uncertainties, including without limitation: · Economic, social and political instability in any particular country or region · Changes in currency exchange rates · Changes in government restrictions on converting currencies or repatriating funds · Changes in U.S. or foreign laws and regulations or in trade, monetary or fiscal policies · High inflation and monetary fluctuations · Changes in restrictions on imports and exports · Difficulties in hiring, training and retaining qualified personnel, particularly finance and accounting personnel with U.S. GAAP expertise · Inability to obtain access to fair and equitable political, regulatory, administrative and legal systems · Changes in government tax policy · Difficulties in enforcing our contractual rights or enforcing judgments or obtaining a just result in foreign jurisdictions · Potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions · Managing our relationship and contractual rights with any partner we enter into business with in a foreign country 9 Any of these factors, by itself or in combination with others, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to keep existing retail locations or open new retail locations in desirable places, which could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. We may be unable to keep existing retail locations or open new retail locations in desirable places in the future. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable retail locations. Local land use, local zoning issues, environmental regulations and other regulations may affect our ability to find suitable retail locations and also influence the cost of leasing, building or buying them. We also may have difficulty negotiating real estate leases and purchase agreements on acceptable terms. Further, to relocate or open new retail locations successfully, we must hire and train employees for them. Construction, environmental, zoning and real estate delays may negatively affect retail location openings and increase costs and capital expenditures. In addition, when we open new retail locations in markets where we already have a presence, our existing locations may experience a decline in sales as a result, and when we open retail locations in new markets, we may encounter difficulties in attracting customers due to a lack of customer familiarity with our brand, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences, competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence, and seasonal differences in the market. We cannot be certain that new or relocated retail locations will produce the anticipated sales or return on investment or that existing retail locations will not be materially adversely affected by new or expanded competition in their market areas. Terrorist activities and governmental efforts to thwart them could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A terrorist attack or series of attacks on the United States could have a significant adverse effect on its economy. This downturn in the economy could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility could cause greater uncertainty and cause the economy to suffer in ways that we cannot predict. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 