Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. Additional information regarding various risks and uncertainties facing us are included under Item 7 of this report on Form 10-K. Solely for purposes of the risk factors in this Item 1A, the terms “we,” “our,” and “us” refer to Tasty Baking Company and its subsidiaries. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or deemed insignificant may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increased Competition May Impair Profitability We are engaged in a highly competitive business. The number of choices facing the consumer on how to spend snack food dollars has increased significantly over the last several years, particularly with the introduction of more convenient packaging of traditional products, both sweet and salty. Although the number of competitors varies among marketing areas, certain competitors are national companies with multiple production facilities, nationwide distribution systems, and nationally recognized brands with large advertising and promotion budgets. From time to time, we experience price pressure in certain of our markets as a result of competitors’ promotional pricing practices. Increased competition could result in lower sales, profits and market share. Change in Top Customers’ Buying Patterns May Adversely Affect Our Sales and Profits Our top twenty customers represented 61.1% of our 2009 net sales and 59.0% of our 2008 net sales. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart, represented approximately 20.6% of our net sales in 2009 and 19.7% of our net sales in 2008. If any of the top twenty customers change their buying patterns with us, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. Increased Commodity Prices and Availability May Impact Profitability We are dependent upon sweeteners, cocoa, eggs, oils, and flour for our ingredients. Many commodity prices have experienced recent volatility. Increases in commodity prices and availability could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Change in Consumer Preferences May Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results Our success is contingent upon our ability to forecast the tastes and preferences of consumers and offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preference changes due to taste, nutritional content or other factors, and the Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could adversely affect our financial and operational results. The current consumer focus on wellness may affect demand for our products. We continue to explore the development of new products that appeal to consumer preference trends while maintaining our product quality standards. Collectability of Long-term Receivables May Adversely Affect Our Financial Position Our long-term receivables represent loans issued to our independent sales distributors for the purchase of route territories and delivery vehicles. These loans are issued through a wholly-owned subsidiary, TBC Financial Services, Inc. Current lending guidelines require significant collateral to minimize our risk in the event of default by an independent sales distributor and our loss history has been minimal. The ability to collect the entire loan portfolio, however, is directly related to the success of our current route distribution system and the independent sales distributor’s ability to repay the loan, which is directly related to the economic success of the route. In addition, any external event or circumstance that impacts the independent sales distributors may also affect the col lectability of long-term receivables. - 5 - The Inability to Further Develop Our Brand Recognition May Adversely Impact Sales and Profitability Historically, route sales by independent sales distributors have accounted for the largest part of our revenues. As we expanded outside of our core route market, the percentage of volume may shift toward more non-route business, causing some erosion of our gross margin. We continue to evaluate existing and new business possibilities outside the core market utilizing both Company owned routes and third party distributors. We also sell products through distributorships and major grocery chains that have centralized warehouse distribution capabilities throughout the continental United States and Puerto Rico. If we are unable to further develop brand recognition in the expanded markets, sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Limited Product Shelf Life May Adversely Affect Sales Potential Our products have limited shelf life. Production planning and monitoring of demand is essential to effective operations, both to fulfill customer demand and to minimize the levels of inventory and returns. Delays in getting products to market for any reason, including transportation disruptions or bad weather, may cause loss of sales, which could adversely affect our operating results. Product Recall or Safety Concerns May Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results We may recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged or if there is a perceived safety issue. A perceived safety issue, product recall or an adverse result in any related litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and financial results. Loss of Facilities Could Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results We currently have three production facilities: two in Philadelphia and one in Oxford, Pennsylvania. One Philadelphia facility is a multi-storied manufacturing facility where some of our signature products are manufactured and is in the process of being transitioned to our newly constructed production facility in the Philadelphia Navy Yard. The facility in the Philadelphia Navy Yard will be the exclusive production facility of our signature products once fully operational which is expected in the spring of 2010. The Oxford facility is a single-story manufacturing facility with expansion possibilities. Our data processing operations are located at our Corporate Office in the Navy Yard, with off-site data backup and disaster recovery facilities. The loss of any of the facilities could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and results of operations. Indebtedness Incurred in Connection with Our Strategic Manufacturing Initiative Could Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results Higher levels of indebtedness associated with the Company’s new manufacturing and distribution facility could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and require that we use a larger portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest, thereby reducing availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other operating needs. The Inability to Successfully Implement Our Strategic Manufacturing Initiative Could Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results We are dependent upon third parties to deliver and install high-tech, modern baking equipment. Unanticipated delays in the completion of the facility or delivery of new equipment could substantially increase the costs and ultimately the indebtedness associated with the initiative. Unexpected increases in equipment or installation costs could also substantially increase the indebtedness associated with the initiative. Unfavorable deviations from expected equipment performance or unforeseen difficulties associated with transitioning to a new facility could significantly increase the costs of future production. Such unanticipated delays, cost increases or unfavorable deviations in equipment performance could also restrict the Company’s ability to increase revenues and profitability, and have an advers e impact on our financial condition and results of operations. - 6 - A Change in Interest Rates May Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results Increases in interest rates will increase our recognition of interest expense related to long-term debt and the interest income related to our long-term receivables. A decrease in interest rates used to set the pension discount rate could increase pension liability and adversely impact the relationship of our unrecognized gain or loss to the pension corridor. Refer to the risk factor “Changes in Pension Expense Assumptions and Estimates May Adversely Affect Our Operational Results” below for additional discussion. A sensitivity analysis on the impact of this relationship is included in Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 below. Terms of Indebtedness Impose Significant Restrictions on Our Business Our bank credit facility, PIDC Local Development Corporation credit facility and the Machinery and Equipment Loan Fund loans with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (the “Agreements”) contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, incur or become liable for additional indebtedness; create or suffer to exist certain liens; enter into business combinations or asset sale transactions; make restricted payments, including dividends over a specified amount; make investments; enter into transactions with affiliates; and enter into new businesses. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, sell assets, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. The Agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to remain in compliance with our financial ratio requirements in the future could be affected by events beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, a significant increase in the cost of our raw materials or a material increase in our pension or postretirement obligations. Failure to maintain any applicable financial ratios may prevent us from borrowing additional amounts under our bank credit facility and could result in a default under the Agreements, which could cause the indebtedness outstanding under the Agreements to become immediately due and payable if the appropriate waiver could not be obtained by the Company. If we were unable to repay those amounts, our banks could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding. If the banks were to accelerate the repayment of all outstanding borrowings under the Agreements, we may not have sufficient assets to repay those amounts and any others that default as a result thereof. In addition, if we amend our Agreements or seek a waiver for any events of default, we may incur additional fees and/or higher interest rates on all or a portion of our outstanding borrowings. Changes in Governmental Laws and Regulations Could Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies, including regulation of our products, properties, employees, distribution and overall operations. Changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter the environment in which we operate and may affect results of operations or increase liabilities. These include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws. Litigation Could Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results We are involved in certain legal and regulatory actions, all of which have arisen in the ordinary course of our business. We are unable to predict the outcome of these matters, but do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, if one or more of these matters were determined adversely to us, the ultimate liability arising therefrom could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may become subject to additional litigation at any time which could have an adverse material impact on us. Changes in Pension Expense Assumptions and Estimates May Adversely Affect Our Operational Results Accounting for pension expense requires the use of estimates and assumptions including discount rate, rate of return on plan assets, compensation increases, mortality and employee turnover, all of which affect the amount of expense recognized by us. In addition, the rate of return on plan assets is directly related to changes in the equity and credit markets, which can be volatile. The use of the above assumptions, market volatility and our election in 1987 to recognize all pension gains and losses in excess of our pension corridor in the current year may cause us to experience significant changes in our pension expense from year to year which could adversely affect our operating results. Most other public companies elected an amortization method that allows recognition of pension gains and losses to be amortized o ver longer periods of time. - 7 - Increases in Employee and Employee-Related Costs Could Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results Health care and other employee-related costs may continue to rise and any substantial increase in costs may have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, a shortage of qualified employees, a substantial increase in the cost of qualified employees, or any adverse affect resulting from third party labor negotiations could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial results. Loss or Impairment of Intellectual Property and Trade Secrets Could Adversely Affect Our Brands and Our Business We have taken efforts to protect our trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets as we consider our intellectual property rights important to our success. However, other parties may take actions or, without authority, make use of our intellectual property that could impair the value of our proprietary rights or the reputation of our brands. Any such impairment could adversely affect our business. Current Economic and Market Conditions Could Adversely Affect Our Financial and Operational Results Our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic and business conditions nationally and particularly within our core market. In addition, the business strategies implemented by management to meet these business conditions and other market challenges may have a significant impact upon our future financial condition and results of operations. During the second half of 2008 and throughout 2009, the U.S. economy has experienced a significant downturn that has resulted in elevated levels of financial market volatility, customer uncertainty and widespread concerns about the U.S. and world economies. This may negatively impact the demand for our products and our allowance for doubtful accounts, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of opera tions. In addition, this economic crisis has had a material and direct impact on financial institutions resulting in limited access to capital, which may impact our ability to borrow funds to support operations or other liquidity needs under our credit facility or otherwise borrow or raise capital. Moreover, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition or results of operations will be negatively impacted by the economic downturn. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. - 8 - 