Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. Additional information regarding various risks and uncertainties facing us are included under Item 7 of this report on Form 10-K. Solely for purposes of the risk factors in this Item 1A, the terms “we,” “our,” and “us” refer to Tasty Baking Company and its subsidiaries. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or deemed insignificant may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Due to our current liquidity situation and indebtedness that is due June 30, 2011, there is substantial doubt regarding our ability to maintain liquidity sufficient to operate our business and our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors, the independent registered public accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have included an explanatory paragraph in their opinion on our consolidated financial statements that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern (see page 27). In response to this situation, we explored various financial and strategic alternatives, which culminated with the Company entering into the Merger Agreement with Flowers. Until the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the “Transaction”), our future remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that the Transaction will close. If unsuccessful, we could be required to pursue a restructuring of our indebtedness or file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We have entered into a definitive merger agreement with Flowers Foods, Inc., which is subject to certain conditions As described above in "Business - Recent Developments," we recently entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger with Flowers Foods, Inc. ("Flowers") and its wholly-owned subsidiary Flowers Bakeries, LLC. The Merger Agreement provides that Flowers will acquire all of our outstanding shares of our common stock for a cash payment of $4.00 per share. The closing of the Transaction is subject to certain terms and conditions, including (but not limited to): ● tender of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock in the first step tender offer; ● no occurrence of a material adverse effect on the business; ● no material breach by us (which has not been cured or waived) under our lease for our bakery at the Philadelphia Navy Yard; and ● no litigation challenging the tender offer or merger; While we currently anticipate closing the Transaction on or before June 30, 2011, there can be no assurance that all of the requisite closing conditions will be met and the Offer will close or the Merger will occur, or that they will occur on the timetable contemplated hereby. If this Transaction is not completed for any reason, our shareholders will not receive any payment for their shares pursuant to the Merger Agreement, and the market value of our shares of common stock may decrease significantly. In addition, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses, and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with these transactions, and many of these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether or not the Merger is consummated. Given the Company's current tight liquidity and the additional costs of these fees, if we cannot close the Transaction contemplated by the Merger Agreement, we could be required to pursue a restructuring of our indebtedness or file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We face uncertainty regarding our liquidity and our capital resources. Several of our creditors, including the bank group under our Bank Credit Facility, have waived payment obligations and certain specified defaults until June 30, 2011. Further, the maturity date for the Bank Credit Facility was moved up to June 30, 2011. As discussed in Item 7 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Liquidity and Capital Resources), we have entered into arrangements with certain of our creditors, including our bank group (each a “Creditor, and collectively, the “Creditors”), on January 14, 2011 (each a “Creditor Amendment,” and collectively the “Creditor Amendments”). Absent a refinancing of our indebtedness or consummation of the Transaction, it is likely that we will be unable to repay the amount due under the Bank Credit Facility, as amended, and maintain liquidity sufficient to operate our business beyond June 30, 2011 and, as a result, the bank group will have the right to institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing the Bank Credit Facility. This action by the bank group would have a material adverse impact on the Company. - 5 - If we are not able to obtain adequate financing from a refinancing or complete the Transaction prior to June 30, 2011, we could potentially be required to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, either through a prepackaged plan of reorganization or under an alternative plan, which could include liquidation. If we were not able to secure adequate funding to continue our operations or complete the Transaction, we could potentially be required to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, either through a prepackaged plan of reorganization or under an alternative plan, which could include liquidation. If we are unable to refinance the Bank Credit Facility prior to June 30, 2011, or otherwise satisfactorily address payments due on June 30, 2011, a default would arise with respect to payment on this obligation, which could also trigger cross defaults in other outstanding debt and potentially require us to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Substantial risks would result from any such bankruptcy filing, including the risk that the equity interests of our current shareholders would be completely eliminated. The Bank Credit Facility imposes significant restrictive and financial covenants that limit our financial and operating activities, and could cause us to be in default prior to June 30, 2011. The Bank Credit Facility, as amended in connection with the Creditor Amendments, requires us to comply with certain restrictive covenants and maintain certain financial covenants, including meeting certain financial ratios and performance against a cash flow forecast. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things, incur or become liable for additional indebtedness; create or suffer to exist certain liens; enter into business combinations or asset sale transactions; make restricted payments, including dividends; make investments, and enter into new businesses. Our ability to remain in compliance with these covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, such as general economic conditions or a significant increase in the cost of our raw materials. Failure to maintain any financial covenant or to comply with any operating covenant will cause us to be in default under the Bank Credit Facility. A default under the Bank Credit Facility would also occur if we default under our leases at the Philadelphia Navy Yard or the loans from other Creditors. Any of these defaults could cause the outstanding indebtedness to become immediately due and payable and it is unlikely that we would be able to repay the Banks if the Bank Credit Facility became immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, our Banks could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding. Moreover, a default under our Bank Credit Facility would also cause a cross-default under our leases at the Philadelphia Navy Yard and our loans from other Creditors. Absent a refinancing arrangement or other alternative that satisfies the obligations of the Bank Credit Facility, the Creditor Amendments to the Bank Credit Facility requires us to complete the sale of the Company by June 30, 2011, and we may not be successful. The Bank Credit Facility, as amended in connection with the Creditor Amendments, requires us to engage in a process (pursuant to an agreed upon timeline with milestones) to sell the Company by June 30, 2011 for an amount sufficient to pay all obligations under the Bank Credit Facility (the “Obligations”) along with all related transaction costs. We retained the investment banking firm of Janney Montgomery Scott LLC as our financial advisor to assist us in our evaluation of various possible financial and strategic alternatives, which culminated in the Company entering into the Merger Agreement with Flowers. However, there can be no assurance that the Transaction will be completed by June 30, 2011, or at all. A failure to complete the Transaction or to refinance the outstanding debt may result in the Bank Credit Facility becoming immediately due and payable. A default under our lease at the Philadelphia Navy Yard will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We currently lease our Philadelphia Navy Yard bakery from Liberty Property Trust (the “Landlord”). The bakery is the exclusive production facility for most of our branded products, including cakes, pies and snack bars. The Creditor Amendment with the Landlord waives certain defaults and payments due until June 30, 2011. If we fail to pay all accrued amounts due on or before June 30, 2011, we will be in default under this lease. The loss of this facility would have a material and immediate adverse impact on our ability to continue as a going concern. - 6 - The failure to achieve expected cost savings at our new bakery at the Philadelphia Navy Yard will continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We had originally anticipated that we would achieve $13 to $15 million in annualized pre-tax cash savings, net of facility leases but before debt service, at our new bakery at the Philadelphia Navy Yard. However, by the end of 2010, the Company had achieved annualized pre-tax cash savings of approximately $10 million. If this facility does not consistently achieve at least this level of annualized pre-tax cash savings, this could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and our ability to continue as a going concern. We are dependent on maintaining relationships and material contracts with our suppliers. Our current tight liquidity may cause certain critical suppliers to further tighten their credit terms or require us to change their trade terms to a “cash on delivery” or “cash on order” basis or such other terms that could have an adverse impact on our short-term cash flow. Failure to maintain our current relationships with our critical suppliers could have a material and immediate adverse impact on our ability to operate as a going concern. Our indebtedness has impacted our operational results. Higher levels of indebtedness associated with our new manufacturing and distribution facility has increased our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limited our ability to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and required that we use a larger portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest, thereby reducing availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other operating needs. Because a large portion of our costs are fixed, our operating cash flow margins are highly dependent on sales of our products and how efficiently we operate our bakeries. A lower amount of sales or higher expenses, when coupled with our significant debt obligations, could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and continue as a going concern. Our results may be adversely impacted by customers that become insolvent or bankrupt. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, including risk of insolvency and bankruptcy. To the extent one or more of our customers becomes insolvent or seeks protection from its creditors, we may not be able to collect money due to us and we could incur write-downs to our accounts receivable balances. In addition, the loss of such receivables could substantially and adversely impact our liquidity. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our financial and operational results. The interest on our Bank Credit Facility is structured, in part, on LIBOR rates. An increase in LIBOR rates could adversely affect our ability to meet the financial covenants under our Bank Credit Facility. In addition, increases in interest rates will increase our recognition of interest expense related to long-term debt and the interest income related to our long-term receivables. A decrease in interest rates used to set the pension discount rate could increase pension liability and adversely impact the relationship of our unrecognized gain or loss to the pension corridor. Refer to the risk factor “Changes in Pension Expense Assumptions and Estimates May Adversely Affect Our Operational Results” below for additional discussion. A sensitivity analysis on the impact of this relationship is included in Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 below. A change in top customer’s buying patterns may adversely affect our financial results. Our top twenty customers represented 61.6% of our 2010 net sales and 61.1% of our 2009 net sales. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart, represented approximately 19.3% of our net sales in 2010 and 20.6% of our net sales in 2009. Another significant customer, Wawa, represented 10.2% of our net sales in 2010 and 9.5% of our net sales in 2009. If any of the top twenty customers change their buying patterns with us, our sales, profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected. An increase in commodity prices and availability may impact profitability and our tight liquidity situation. We are dependent upon sweeteners, cocoa, eggs, oils, and flour for our ingredients in addition to paper, films and plastics used to package our products. The prices for raw materials are influenced by a number of factors, including the weather, crop production, transportation and processing costs, government regulation and policies, worldwide market supply and demand and global political events. Many commodities have recently been at record levels, and commodity markets are experiencing unprecedented volatility. Increases in commodity prices and availability could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and our already tight liquidity. - 7 - In addition, we are dependent on fuel and electricity used in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Beginning in 2011 electricity rates in Pennsylvania will no longer be capped but will be subject to market prices. Substantial future increase in prices for, or shortages of, fuel or electricity could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and our already tight liquidity. A decline in the demand for our products may adversely affect our financial results. The consumer has a large number of choices on how to spend their snack money. Consumer preferences may change due to taste, nutritional content, price sensitivity or other factors and we may not have enough time to anticipate, identify and react to these changes. If there is a significant decrease in the demand for our products, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected and our liquidity could worsen. Our competitors may attempt to take advantage of our tight liquidity situation. We are engaged in a highly competitive business. Although the number of competitors varies among marketing areas, certain competitors are national companies with multiple production facilities, nationwide distribution systems, and nationally recognized brands with large advertising and promotion budgets. As a result of our tight liquidity, certain competitors may increase their promotional pricing practices. Increased competition could result in lower sales and adversely affect our financial results. Our relationship with our independent sales distributors and the collectability of long-term receivables is critical to our ability to grow our business and our financial position. The majority of our products are sold through a direct store delivery system by independent sales distributors. Our relationship with the independent sales distributors is critical to the success of our route distribution system. A material adverse action or development affecting the relationship with the independent sales distributors may negatively impact our results of operation. In addition, our long-term receivables represent loans issued to our independent sales distributors for the purchase of route territories and delivery vehicles. These loans are issued through our wholly-owned subsidiary, TBC Financial Services, Inc. Our current lending guidelines require significant collateral in order to minimize our risk in the event of default by an independent sales distributor. As a result, our loss history has been minimal. The ability to collect the entire loan portfolio, however, is directly related to the success of our current route distribution system and the independent sales distributor’s ability to repay the loan, which is directly related to the economic success of the route. In addition, any external event or circumstance that impacts the independent sales distributors may also affect the collectability of long-term receivables. Our ability to retain qualified employees is adversely impacted by the June 30, 2011 deadline to sell or refinance the Company. We could lose qualified employees due to the uncertainty regarding our future as well as due to the increased work load associated with complying with the Creditor Amendments. If we lose certain members of our senior staff or a significant number of employees, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to complete the Transaction on or before June 30, 2011. The market price for our common stock has decreased and a continued decrease in our stock price may result in a delisting by the NASDAQ Global Market. Our stock price has decreased significantly since December 23, 2010. If our stock price continues to decline, we might not meet the NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements and we could be delisted. A delisting could negatively impact us by (i) reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and (ii) reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock. - 8 - Our financial and operational results could be adversely affected by any product or safety recall. We may recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged or if there is a perceived safety issue. A perceived safety issue, product recall or an adverse result in any related litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and financial results. A loss of facilities could adversely affect our financial and operational results. We currently have two production facilities: one in Philadelphia and one in Oxford, Pennsylvania. The Philadelphia Navy Yard bakery is a single-story manufacturing facility with expansion possibilities and is the exclusive production facility of our signature products, including cakes, pies and snack bars. The Oxford facility is a single-story manufacturing facility with expansion possibilities and the exclusive production facility of our honey bun, donut and private label product lines. Our data processing operations are located at our Corporate Office in the Navy Yard, with off-site data backup and disaster recovery facilities. The loss of any of the facilities could have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in governmental laws and regulations could adversely affect our financial and operational results. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies, including regulation of our products, properties, employees, distribution and overall operations. Changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter the environment in which we operate and may affect results of operations or increase liabilities. These include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws. Litigation could adversely affect our financial and operational results. We are involved in certain legal and regulatory actions, all of which have arisen in the ordinary course of our business. We are unable to predict the outcome of these matters, but do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, if one or more of these matters were determined adversely to us, the ultimate liability arising therefrom could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may become subject to additional litigation at any time which could have a material adverse impact on us. Moreover, if our directors or officers become subject to litigation, we are required to indemnify them for certain actions and these costs could have a material adverse effect on us. Loss or impairment of intellectual property and trade secrets could adversely affect our brands and our business. We have taken efforts to protect our trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets as we consider our intellectual property rights important to our success. However, other parties may take actions or, without authority, make use of our intellectual property that could impair the value of our proprietary rights or the reputation of our brands. Any such impairment could adversely affect our business. Changes in pension expense assumptions and estimates may adversely affect our operational results. Accounting for pension expense requires the use of estimates and assumptions including discount rate, rate of return on plan assets, compensation increases, mortality and employee turnover, all of which affect the amount of expense recognized by us. In addition, the rate of return on plan assets is directly related to changes in the equity and credit markets, which can be volatile. The use of the above assumptions, market volatility and our election in 1987 to recognize all pension gains and losses in excess of our pension corridor in the current year may cause us to experience significant changes in our pension expense from year to year which could adversely affect our operating results. Limited product shelf life may adversely affect sales potential. Our products have limited shelf life. Production planning and monitoring of demand is essential to effective operations, both to fulfill customer demand and to minimize the levels of inventory and returns. Delays in getting products to market for any reason, including transportation disruptions or bad weather, may cause loss of sales, which could adversely affect our operating results. - 9 - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 