Item 1A. Risk Factors We may make changes in the terms of our business credit card accounts that could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability. We have the right to change the terms of our agreements with our cardholders, including the finance charge rates and the other fees and charges which will be applicable from time to time on the accounts, the applicable minimum monthly payment required on the accounts and various other terms. As a result of changes in applicable law, changes in the marketplace, prudent business practice or other reasons, we may decide to increase or decrease finance charge rates or other fees and charges for existing accounts, or to take actions that would otherwise change the terms of the accounts. Changes in the terms of our business credit card accounts may cause account attrition or changes in customer behavior, such as credit card use, payment patterns and rates of delinquencies and charge-offs, which can negatively affect our results of operations and profitability. Changes in the finance charges and the other fees and charges assessed on the accounts and changes in minimum monthly payments required may affect the effective yield on the accounts and could negatively impact our results of operations and profitability. Marketing with low introductory or promotional rates may result in account attrition when these rates expire. A portion of our business credit card accounts have introductory or promotional finance charge rates which are generally at low levels during an initial or other specified period and which generally rise to higher rates after the initial or other specified period expires. Accounts with these introductory or promotional rate features are subject to a risk that cardholders who were attracted by the low introductory or promotional rates will transfer account balances or shift credit card spending to other credit card accounts having a lower rate 14 Table of Contents when our introductory or promotional rate period expires. There can be no assurance that our efforts to retain these accounts will be successful and that there will not be significant attrition in these accounts. Changes in our product offerings and features could negatively affect our ability to originate and retain customer relationships and may reduce our profitability. We use competitively-priced product offerings, including promotional pricing and rewards programs, in our marketing campaigns. Changes to our product offerings, including changes in rewards program terms, changes in introductory and promotional pricing levels or changes to other product features, may result in changes in customer behavior, such as levels of credit card use and payment patterns, that could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, changes to our product offerings, such as those described above, may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain high credit quality customers. If we are unable to develop, introduce or offer new or competitive products, our ability to generate new accounts and compete effectively could be adversely affected. Many factors could prevent us from developing, introducing or offering new or competitive products, including our inability to obtain licenses for intellectual property rights or to obtain them at acceptable costs, the failure of or delay in cardholders’ acceptance of our products or services, losses associated with the testing and implementation of new products or services or financial, legal or other difficulties arising in the course of implementing new products or services. If we are unable to successfully develop, acquire, produce, test, market and offer new or competitive products and services, it could adversely affect our competitive position, including our ability to generate new accounts and to generate receivables in existing accounts. The failure or insolvency of third party service providers may disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to provide services that are critically important to our business credit card business. For example, we rely on third parties to provide all credit card processing functions, and to supply FICO scores and other credit-related data and information about our potential and existing customers. If any third party providing services critical to our business were to fail or become insolvent, or if we were unable to renew expiring agreements with such parties on mutually acceptable terms, our business operations, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We face intense competition in the credit card industry which could negatively impact our ability to generate new accounts and receivables. Advanta Business Cards competes in the credit card industry where there is increased competitive use of advertising, target marketing and pricing competition with respect to finance charge rates, cardholder fees and rewards programs. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have more capital and other resources than we do. Competition among lenders can take many forms, including convenience in obtaining a loan, the size of their existing customer base, the ability to cross-sell products to that customer base, intellectual property rights, customer service, rewards programs, size of loans, finance charge rates and other types of finance or service charges, the nature of the risk the lender is willing to assume and the type of security, if any, required by the lender. In addition, there has been a trend toward consolidation among credit card issuers in recent years which has resulted in even larger competitors and which could lead to more intense competition. These competitive pressures may negatively impact our ability to market our products effectively, generate new business credit card receivables and our profitability. If we are unable to attract and retain talented employees our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Competition for talented personnel is intense. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver our products and services may be adversely affected. Legislative and regulatory developments may affect our business operations and ability to generate new accounts. Banking, finance and insurance businesses in general are the subject of extensive regulation at the state and federal levels, and numerous legislative and regulatory proposals are advanced each year which, if adopted, could affect our profitability or the manner in which we conduct our activities. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the federal or state proposals will become law. 15 Table of Contents The credit card industry is also highly regulated by federal and state laws. These laws affect how loans are made, enforced and collected. The United States Congress and state legislatures may pass new laws, or may amend existing laws, to regulate further the credit card industry or to reduce finance charges or other fees applicable to credit card accounts. This could make it more difficult for us to change the terms of our existing business credit card accounts or to collect business credit card receivables and could decrease our income and profitability. In recent years certain industry groups and consumers have expressed concerns about interchange rates related to Visa® and MasterCard® credit and debit transactions and about increases in the interchange rates. In some other countries, regulators have taken actions to challenge or reduce interchange rates and certain other fees banks charge on transactions. While there is no specific imminent regulatory action pending to restrict interchange rates in the United States, interchange rates have also been the topic of increased Congressional and regulatory interest. Also in the United States, several suits have been filed by various merchants alleging that the establishment of interchange rates violates the antitrust laws. Any restriction on or reduction in interchange rates would reduce the amount of interchange paid to us and could have an adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position. Federal and state legislatures as well as government regulatory agencies are considering legislative and regulatory initiatives related to enhanced credit scoring disclosure, interchange rates, data security, penalty pricing, minimum monthly payments and other aspects of credit card lending, marketing and operations. While many of these initiatives are generally directed at consumer transactions, it is possible that if any were to become effective they could impact small business lending and accordingly, could make compliance more difficult and expensive and could negatively affect our operating results and the manner in which we conduct our business. Actions by bank regulatory authorities could affect the manner in which we conduct our business and our financial condition. We conduct our business credit card business through Advanta Bank Corp., a Utah chartered industrial bank that is subject to regulatory oversight and examination by both the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. We also own Advanta National Bank, a national banking association that is subject to regulatory oversight primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Both banks are subject to provisions of federal law that regulate their activities and require them to operate in a safe and sound manner. The effects of, and changes in, the level of regulatory scrutiny, regulatory requirements and initiatives, including mandatory and possible discretionary actions by federal and state regulators, restrictions and limitations imposed by banking laws, examinations, audits and possible agreements between the bank and its regulators may affect the operations of the bank and our financial condition. See “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation” for further discussion. We have procedures to comply with applicable local, state and federal laws, rules and regulations and we believe that we comply in all material respects with these requirements. We incur substantial costs and expenses in connection with our compliance programs and efforts. Changes in or the adoption of additional or more restrictive laws, rules and regulations applicable to us could make compliance more difficult and expensive. Failure to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements can lead to, among other remedies, class action lawsuits and administrative enforcement actions. Legal proceedings against us may result in adverse outcomes. We are now and in the future may become subject to a variety of legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits, other litigation and claims arising in the ordinary course of business or discontinued operations. The costs we incur in defending ourselves or associated with settling any of these proceedings, as well as a material final judgment, injunction or decree against us, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or our ability to conduct our business. The results of litigation are difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that legal proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Changes in accounting may affect our reported earnings and results of operations. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, interpretations and practices for many aspects of our business are complex and involve subjective judgments, such as 16 Table of Contents accounting for the allowance for receivable losses, securitization income, business credit card rewards programs, income taxes and discontinued operations. Changes in these estimates or changes in other accounting rules and principles, or their interpretation, could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results, and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. If third parties claim we infringe their intellectual property rights it could negatively impact our business and financial position. From time to time we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow. Responding to these claims may require us to: enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms; develop non-infringing products, services or business methods or operations; or pay damages or satisfy indemnification commitments under contractual provisions. If we are required to do any of these things, our operating results and financial position may be negatively impacted. Changes in tax laws and outcomes of tax audits may affect our tax liabilities and financial condition. We are subject to federal income taxes as well as income and other business taxes in certain state and local jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income and other business taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are circumstances where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax returns and filings are regularly under audit or examination by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits or examinations, and any related litigation, as well as changes in tax laws, rates, regulations, or interpretations of any of the foregoing, could materially affect our tax liabilities and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may reduce our profitability. Fluctuations in interest rates, whether caused by changes in economic conditions or other factors, may affect our profitability. Our cost of funding our business is influenced by market interest rates because the interest rates we pay on our business credit card securitizations and on our deposits are influenced by market interest rates. A portion of our business credit card receivables are effectively at a fixed rate because of the nature of the pricing of the accounts or because the cardholder pays the balance in full each month. Therefore, an increase in market interest rates could reduce our net interest income and/or our securitization income. Changes in interest rates can also affect the value of our assets and liabilities. Social, economic, environmental and geographic factors can affect levels of customer spending, credit card payments and other customer behaviors in ways that could negatively impact our asset quality and profitability. A variety of social, economic, environmental and geographic factors can adversely affect customer behaviors, such as levels of credit card use and payment patterns. Social factors include changes in confidence levels and attitudes toward incurring debt, the public’s perception of the use of credit cards and the stigma of bankruptcy. Economic factors include the rates of inflation, the unemployment rates and the relative interest rates offered for various types of loans. In addition, acts of terrorism in the United States and the political and military response to any such events may have an adverse effect on general economic or environmental conditions, business confidence and spending and general market liquidity. Geographic factors may include adverse changes in economic and environmental conditions in states where cardholders are located which could have a direct impact on the timing and amount of payments on the accounts. Any of these factors could negatively impact the performance of our business credit card portfolio and our profitability through, among other things, lower new account originations, lower credit card use, increases in delinquencies, increases in the number of customers seeking protection under the bankruptcy laws and increases in credit losses. Market conditions and other factors beyond our control could negatively impact the availability and cost of funding for our operations. We fund our businesses through diversified sources including securitizations, deposits at our bank subsidiaries and sales of debt securities. To generate cash for the funding of our operations we rely on our ability to combine and sell business credit card receivables as asset-backed securities 17 Table of Contents through transactions known as securitizations. At December 31, 2005, off-balance sheet securitized receivables represented 59% of our funding. Our ability to complete securitizations depends upon: • general conditions in the securities markets; • specific conditions in the asset-backed securities markets; and • the quality of our business credit card portfolio. Adverse changes in these market conditions or the quality of our loan portfolio may disrupt the timing of our securitization transactions and impair our ability to complete securitizations on terms that are satisfactory to us. Although securitizations are not our only source of cash to fund our operations, any substantial reduction in our ability to complete securitizations could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Currently our debt is rated below investment grade. Non-investment grade ratings of our debt from rating agencies could make it more difficult and more costly for us to sell debt or equity securities in the capital markets. Continuation of our below investment grade ratings or a down-grade of any of the ratings of our debt may negatively affect, among other things, our ability to borrow or raise funds on terms that we consider favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain funding on favorable terms, it may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 