Item 1A. Risk Factors Negative trends and developments in economic conditions and the financial markets may continue to adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, access to various funding sources and the trading price of our common stock. Deterioration of the U.S. economy beginning in the latter half of 2007 and the continuing negative trends in economic conditions and disruption in the capital markets have adversely affected our business. Many small business credit card issuers, including Advanta, have experienced increased delinquencies and charge-offs due to the impact of the general economic downturn on small businesses. It is more difficult to predict the credit performance of our customers and the losses inherent in our portfolio in this challenging economic environment. If the economic downturn continues, the ability and willingness of our small business customers to pay amounts owed to us could continue to be adversely affected, resulting in further increases in delinquencies and charge-offs. In addition, continued deterioration in the economy could lead to further reductions in the number of customers and the volume of transactions and have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The disruption in the credit and financial markets has negatively impacted the securitization markets, the value of certain of our investments and the value of our retained interests in securitizations, which has impacted our funding decisions and our ability to realize expected levels of return on certain of our assets. Although we have high levels of capital and liquidity, if the current economic situation continues or worsens it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC may cease to list our Class A voting common stock and Class B non-voting common stock, which may cause the value of an investment in us to substantially decrease. We may be unable to meet the listing requirements of the Global Market of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) in the future. To maintain a listing on the Global Market, a listed security must maintain a daily closing bid price per share of $1.00 and the market value of publicly held shares for such security must be greater than $5 million. If the closing bid price per share of a listed security stays below $1.00 or the market value of publicly held shares stays below $5 million for 30 consecutive trading days, a company will have a certain period of time to regain compliance or the listed security will be subject to delisting. For the closing bid price requirement, a company has 180 days to regain compliance and for the minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement, a company has 90 days to regain compliance. The closing daily bid price of our Class A Common Stock has been less than $1.00 per share since January 20, 2009, and the closing daily bid price of our Class B Common Stock has been less than $1.00 per share since January 21, 2009. The market value of publicly held shares of our Class A Common Stock is currently less than $5 million. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ implemented a temporary suspension of the rules requiring, among other things, a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and a $5 million minimum market value of publicly held shares. On December 23, 2008, NASDAQ extended this suspension until April 20, 2009. As a result of the suspension we are not currently considered to be out of compliance with the listing requirement for either our Class A Common Stock or our Class B Common Stock. NASDAQ may further extend the suspension of the rules; if they do not, in the event the closing bid price of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock does not increase to above $1.00 per share by June 1, 2009 (the 30th consecutive trading day after the NASDAQ suspension is lifted), one or both classes of our common stock may be delisted from NASDAQ if we are unable to regain compliance within 180 days. In addition, if the market value of the publicly held shares of our Class A Common Stock does not increase to above $5 million by June 1, 2009, our Class A Common Stock may be delisted from NASDAQ if we are unable to regain compliance within 90 days. If one or both classes of our common stock are delisted, there may be a limited market for the shares of the delisted class of our common stock, trading in the shares of the delisted class of our common stock may become more difficult and the share price for the delisted class of our common stock could decrease even further. Any class of our common stock not listed on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange, may cause potential investors to be prohibited from or less likely to purchase such class of common stock. We may make changes in the terms of our business credit card accounts that could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability. We have the right to change the terms of our agreements with our customers, including the finance charge rates and the other fees and charges that are applicable from time to time on the accounts, the applicable minimum monthly payment required on the accounts and various other terms. We may decide to increase or decrease finance charge rates or other fees and charges for existing accounts, or to take actions that would otherwise change the terms of the accounts, as a result of: changes in applicable law or regulations; changes in the marketplace; changes in the economic, political or regulatory environments; prudent business practice; or other reasons. Changes in the terms of our business credit card accounts may cause account attrition or changes in customer behavior, such as credit card use, payment patterns and rates of delinquencies and charge-offs, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability. Changes in the finance charges and the other fees and charges assessed on the accounts and changes in minimum monthly payments required may change the effective yield on the accounts and could negatively impact our results of operations and profitability. Changes in our product offerings, including changes in product features or services, could negatively affect our ability to originate and retain customer relationships and may reduce our profitability. Pricing on our product offerings has typically included promotional pricing and rewards. Changes to our product offerings, including changes in rewards program terms, changes in or the elimination of introductory and promotional pricing levels and changes to other product features or services, may result in changes in customer behavior, such as levels of credit card use and payment patterns, that could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, changes to our product offerings, including changes in pricing, rewards or other product features or services such as those described above, may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain higher credit quality customers. 14 Table of Contents Legislative, regulatory and other legal developments may affect our business operations and ability to generate new accounts. Banking, finance and insurance businesses, in general, and banks, including industrial loan banks such as Advanta Bank Corp., are the subject of extensive regulation at the state and federal levels. Numerous legislative and regulatory proposals are advanced each year which, if adopted, could affect our profitability or the manner in which we conduct our activities. The credit card industry is also highly regulated by federal and state laws. These laws affect how loans are made, enforced and collected. The federal and state legislatures may pass new laws, or may amend existing laws, to regulate further the credit card industry or to reduce finance charges or other fees applicable to credit card accounts. The current economic environment and its impact on the banking and financial services industries has resulted in new laws and regulatory changes and initiatives that could impact, among other things, lending and funding practices and liquidity and capital requirements or could lead to restrictions on certain business practices, methods and policies of credit card issuers. Changes in laws or regulations, as well as changes in the marketplace, economic and political environments and prudent business practices, could make it more difficult for us to market our product offerings, to enforce or change the terms of our existing business credit card accounts or to collect business credit card receivables. Any of the foregoing could decrease our income and profitability. In recent years certain industry groups and consumers have expressed concerns about interchange rates related to Visa® and MasterCard® credit and debit transactions and about increases in the interchange rates. In some countries, regulators have taken actions to challenge or reduce interchange rates and certain other fees that banks charge on transactions. While there is no specific imminent regulatory action pending to restrict interchange rates in the United States, interchange rates have also been the topic of increased Congressional and regulatory interest. Also in the United States, several suits have been filed by various merchants alleging that the establishment of interchange rates violates the antitrust laws. Any restriction on or reduction in interchange rates would reduce the amount of interchange paid to us and could have an adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position. Federal and state legislatures as well as government regulatory agencies are considering increased regulation of credit cards through legislative and regulatory initiatives that could impact our business, such as proposals related to enhanced credit scoring disclosure, interchange rates, defaults, billing practices, account repricing, penalty pricing, payment hierarchy, minimum monthly payments and other aspects of credit card lending, marketing and operations. There are other legislative and regulatory initiatives, including amendments to laws and regulations as well as proposals under discussion or consideration, that could impact the manner in which we conduct and fund our business, such as amendments to regulations governing unfair or deceptive acts and practices and proposals dealing with data security, identity theft and the securitization of credit card receivables and other loans. It is possible that if any versions of these proposals were to become effective they could impact our business and, accordingly, could make compliance more difficult and expensive and could negatively affect our operating results and the manner in which we conduct our business. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the federal or state proposals will become law. We have procedures to comply with local, state and federal laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and to our business and we believe that we comply in all material respects with these requirements. We incur substantial costs and expenses in connection with our compliance programs and efforts. If it were determined that we were not in compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements it could lead to: economic remedies such as penalties, fines and other payments; litigation exposure, including, class action lawsuits; and administrative enforcement actions. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, guidance or interpretations or the outcomes of regulatory reviews or examinations could adversely affect us, including by limiting the types of products and services we may offer and the amounts of finance charge rates or other fees we may charge. For further discussion, see “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation.” We are subject to regulation by a number of different regulatory agencies and authorities, including bank regulatory authorities, which have broad discretion to take actions that could affect the manner in which we conduct our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. We are subject to oversight, regulation and examination by a number of regulatory agencies and authorities, including federal and state bank regulators, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ stock market. We 15 Table of Contents conduct our business credit card business through Advanta Bank Corp., a Utah chartered industrial bank that is subject to regulatory oversight and examination by both the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. We also own Advanta Bank, a bank chartered under the laws of the State of Delaware that is subject to regulatory oversight and examination by the FDIC and the Delaware Office of the State Bank Commissioner. Both banks are subject to provisions of federal law that regulate their activities and require them to operate in a safe and sound manner. The federal and state bank regulators may seek to apply both existing and proposed laws and regulations and to impose changes, restrictions and limitations on our banks, including our business and business practices, which could adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. The effects of, and changes in, the level of regulatory scrutiny, regulatory requirements, regulatory guidance and initiatives, including mandatory and possible discretionary actions by federal and state regulators, restrictions and limitations imposed by laws applicable to industrial loan banks, examinations, audits and possible agreements between a bank and its regulators may affect the operations of our banks and our financial condition. See “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation” for further discussion. Legal proceedings against us may result in adverse outcomes. We are now and in the future may become subject to a variety of legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits, other litigation and claims arising in the ordinary course of business or discontinued operations. The costs we incur in defending ourselves or associated with settling any of these proceedings, as well as a material final judgment, injunction or decree against us, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or our ability to conduct our business. The results of litigation are difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that legal proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. If we do not maintain the security of our customers’ personal information, we could become subject to litigation, damage our reputation and negatively affect our business and business prospects. We receive and maintain personal information about our former, existing and prospective customers directly and through third parties providing services to us. We also store customer account information in connection with the use of our credit cards directly and through third parties. A breach of the systems on which personally identifiable and other sensitive customer information is stored could lead to fraudulent activity using our credit cards or to other illegal and fraudulent activities, including identity theft. In addition, the use and security of personal, financial and other non-public information provided to us by our customers and prospects is the subject of legislation and regulation at the federal and state levels. While we continually strive to maintain our compliance with applicable privacy and security laws and regulations, if we were to experience a data breach involving personal information about our customers or their accounts, we could be subject to increased risk of litigation, fines or penalties as well as increased costs and expenses to come into compliance which could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and ability to conduct our business. Changes in accounting may affect our reported earnings and results of operations. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, interpretations and practices for many aspects of our business are complex and involve subjective judgments, such as accounting for the allowance for receivable losses, securitization income, rewards programs and income taxes. Changes in these estimates or changes in other accounting rules and principles, or their interpretation, could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results, and could add significant volatility to those measures. For further discussion see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. In September 2008, the FASB issued exposure drafts of proposed amendments with substantial revisions to SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, and FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, (“FIN No. 46R”). We sell business credit card receivables in securitization transactions using a securitization trust that is a qualifying special purpose entity (“QSPE”) under SFAS No. 140, and therefore, the assets and liabilities of the trust are not consolidated as part of our consolidated financial statements under GAAP. Proposed changes include the elimination of the QSPE concept from GAAP. If the QSPE concept is eliminated, our securitization structure will have to be evaluated under FIN No. 46R for potential consolidation. 16 Table of Contents The FASB issued its proposed amendments for public comment and, based upon public comments received and other considerations, may revise the amendments before issuing final guidance. Although we cannot at this time predict the content of the final amendments, we may lose sale accounting treatment for previous and future securitization transactions and we may be required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the trust, which would materially affect our consolidated balance sheets. It is not clear, however, when the amendments ultimately will be adopted by the FASB, what changes to the proposed amendments could result from the comment process, how regulatory authorities will respond, or how our financial position or results of operations may be affected. There can be no assurance that amendments could not result in additional capital requirements for Advanta Bank Corp. For the reasons discussed above, if final guidance from FASB impacts the accounting treatment of our securitizations, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition, reserve requirements, capital requirements, liquidity, cost of funds and operations. If third parties claim we infringe their intellectual property rights it could negatively impact our business and financial position. From time to time we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. In recent years, the number of patent claims assertions has increased generally in the United States and the number of these claims that others may assert against us could grow. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they could be time consuming and could result in costly litigation. Responding to these claims may require us to: • enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms; • develop non-infringing products, services or business methods or operations; or • pay damages or satisfy indemnification commitments under contractual provisions. If we are required to do any of these things, our operating results and financial position may be negatively impacted. Changes in tax laws and outcomes of tax audits may affect our tax liabilities, tax assets and financial condition. We are subject to federal income taxes as well as income and other business taxes in certain state and local jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income and other business taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are circumstances where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax returns and filings are regularly under audit or examination by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits or examinations, and any related litigation, as well as changes in tax laws, rates, regulations and policies, or interpretations of any of the foregoing, could materially affect our tax liabilities, tax assets and financial condition. We may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Deferred income taxes represent the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. If based on all available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. When evaluating the realizability of the deferred tax asset, we considered estimates of expected future taxable income, existing and projected book/tax differences, carryback and carryforward periods and tax planning strategies available. As of December 31, 2008, our assessment included an expectation that we will generate sufficient taxable income in future years to realize the deferred tax asset based on forecasts for operations over a reasonable forecasting horizon and the general and industry specific economic outlook, among other items. The level of future operating losses, changes in forecasted results, or other changes in facts and circumstances could impact our conclusion regarding the realizability of the deferred tax asset and a valuation allowance may need to be established in future periods, which could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates and credit spreads may reduce our profitability. Fluctuations in interest rates and credit spreads, whether caused by changes in economic conditions or other factors, may affect our profitability. Credit spreads represent the amount of incremental interest required by investors to compensate for investing in assets that are not risk free. Our cost of funding our business is influenced by market interest rates and credit spreads because the rates we pay on our publicly-offered debt securities, business credit card securitizations and bank deposit products are influenced by both market interest rates and credit spreads. A portion of our business credit card receivables are effectively at a fixed rate because of the nature of the pricing of the accounts or because the 17 Table of Contents customer pays the balance in full each month. Therefore, an increase in market interest rates could reduce our net interest income and/or our securitization income. Changes in interest rates and credit spreads can also affect the value of our assets and liabilities. Social, economic, environmental and geographic factors can affect levels of customer spending, credit card payments and other customer behaviors, as well as our ability to predict customer behaviors, in ways that could negatively impact our asset quality and profitability. A variety of social, economic, environmental and geographic factors can adversely affect customer behaviors, such as levels of credit card use, payment patterns, delinquencies, charge-offs and the number of customers filing under bankruptcy laws. Social factors include changes in confidence levels and attitudes toward incurring debt, the public’s perception of the use of credit cards and the stigma of bankruptcy. Economic factors include the rates of inflation, the unemployment rates and the relative interest rates offered for various types of loans. In addition, acts of terrorism in the United States and the political and military response to any such events may have an adverse effect on general economic or environmental conditions, business confidence and spending, and general market liquidity. Geographic factors may include adverse changes in economic and environmental conditions in states where customers are located which could have a direct impact on the customers’ use of our credit cards as well as on the timing and amount of payments on the accounts. Any of these factors could negatively impact our small business customers and could have an adverse affect on the performance of our business credit card portfolio and our profitability through, among other things, lower new account originations, lower credit card use, increases in delinquencies, increases in the number of customers seeking protection under the bankruptcy laws, increases in charge-offs and credit losses and changes in payment patterns. In addition, any of these factors could negatively impact our ability to accurately predict or anticipate customer behavior. This could cause our business models, including our proprietary credit scoring and other models used to predict and forecast customer behavior and financial results, to produce less accurate and reliable results. Market conditions and other factors beyond our control could negatively impact the availability and cost of funding for our operations. We fund our operations through a number of sources, including securitizations, deposits at our bank subsidiaries and sales of unsecured debt securities. Currently our unsecured debt is rated below investment grade. Non-investment grade ratings of our unsecured debt from rating agencies could make it more difficult and more costly for us to sell debt or equity securities in the capital markets. Continuation of our below investment grade ratings or a down-grade of any of the ratings of our unsecured debt may negatively affect, among other things, our ability to borrow or raise funds on terms that we consider reasonable to us. If we are unable to obtain funding on reasonable terms, it may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations. To generate cash for the funding of our operations we have historically relied on our ability to combine and sell business credit card receivables as asset-backed securities through transactions known as securitizations. At December 31, 2008, off-balance sheet securitized receivables represented 55% of our funding. Our ability to complete securitizations depends upon: • general conditions in the securities markets; • specific conditions in the asset-backed securities markets; • the quality of our business credit card portfolio; and • the ratings on the asset-backed securities sold in the securitizations. The disruption in the credit and financial markets has negatively impacted the securitization markets, the value of certain of our investments and the value of our retained interests in securitizations, which has impacted our funding decisions and our ability to realize expected levels of return on certain of our assets. In February 2009, Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Service both downgraded their ratings on certain of the AdvantaSeries notes issued by our securitization trust. Due to the disruption in the capital markets, since the second quarter of 2008 we have not accessed the securitization markets which have historically been a significant source of our funding. It is uncertain whether or on what terms we will have access to the securitization markets as a source of funding in the future. Although securitizations are not our only source of cash to fund our operations, if our access to securitization funding on terms that we consider reasonable to us continues to be disrupted, it could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents The occurrence of certain events could result in the early amortization of our outstanding business credit card securitization transactions. If an early amortization occurred it could have a negative impact on the value of certain of our assets and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Early amortization triggers include, among others, insufficient cash flows from the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements (for example, “excess spread” requirements). Our business credit card securitizations are typically structured as “revolving transactions” and the occurrence of an event that would trigger an early amortization would result in the end of the revolving period prior to the expected date. In an early amortization, the securitization noteholders are paid as payments are received from customers on the securitized receivables. We have securitization structuring alternatives and other tools available to us to increase the trust’s cash-based revenues, if we choose to do so, that we believe will avoid an early amortization for the trust or any individual securitization. Also, we are under no obligation to fund new receivables on our balance sheet whether or not there is an early amortization. We can do so for the accounts we choose and to the degree we choose. Therefore, we do not expect an early amortization to cause a serious reduction of our strong levels of liquidity. Our expectation is that we would use our tools to prevent an early amortization unless we conclude that it is to our advantage not to do so. This could be the case if we believed that our overall liquidity and equity would be maximized by not preventing an early amortization. If we are unable to develop, introduce or offer new or competitive products and services, our ability to generate new accounts and compete effectively could be adversely affected. Many factors could prevent us from developing, introducing or offering new or competitive products and services, including our inability to obtain licenses for intellectual property rights or to obtain them at acceptable costs, the failure of or delay in customers’ acceptance of our products or services, losses associated with the testing and implementation of new products or services or financial, legal or other difficulties arising in the course of implementing new products or services. If we are unable to successfully develop, acquire, produce, test, market and offer new or competitive products and services, it could adversely affect our competitive position, including our ability to generate new accounts and to generate receivables in existing accounts. Our strategic, contractual and other relationships with third parties expose us to risks that may disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to provide services that are critically important to our business credit card business. For example, we rely on third parties to perform certain administrative functions associated with servicing our business credit card accounts (such as our relationships with FDR and Genpact), and to supply credit scores and other credit-related data and information about our potential and existing customers. In addition, from time to time we partner or contract with, invest in or enter into other relationships with third parties to establish relationships that are necessary for us to conduct our business or are intended to benefit our business operations and financial condition, including outsourcing and other initiatives to enhance our productivity and operational efficiency. These arrangements with third parties expose us to a number of risks, such as the following: • If any third party providing services critical to our business were to fail or become insolvent, or if we were unable to renew expiring agreements with such parties on mutually acceptable terms, our business operations, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. • To the extent these third party relationships involve or depend on the transfer of knowledge related to our business for their success, we may be exposed to risks associated with misappropriation or misuse of intellectual property or confidential information, including information that is proprietary to us or to our customers. • If the third parties do not perform as anticipated or if they default on their obligations, we may not realize the intended benefits of these relationships, including the expected productivity, cost or expense improvements. • In the event of a default or termination, our agreements with third parties may take an extended period of time to unwind or resolve and, under certain circumstances such as early termination, may require us to pay 19 Table of Contents substantial termination fees, which could adversely affect our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. • If our relationships with third parties include indemnification provisions or obligations, we may be required, under specified circumstances, to indemnify the other parties for certain losses they incur in connection with the products or services they provide to us. In the event we are obligated to make payments to third parties under indemnification or other obligations for losses of third parties, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For further discussion, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. • If our relationship is with a third party located outside of the United States, we may be exposed to international economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our business, including, instability in international political and economic conditions, different intellectual property laws and protections and difficulty in administering and enforcing our policies and procedures in a foreign country, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition in the credit card industry which could negatively impact our ability to generate new accounts and receivables. Advanta Business Cards competes in the highly competitive credit card industry. Within the credit card industry there is aggressive and highly competitive use of advertising, product and service offerings and pricing, including with respect to finance charge rates, rewards and other incentive programs and cardholder fees. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, there has been a trend toward consolidation among credit card issuers in recent years which has resulted in even larger competitors. Competition among lenders can take many forms, including convenience in obtaining a loan or credit card, the size of their existing customer base, the ability to cross sell products to that customer base, intellectual property rights, customer service, rewards programs, size of credit lines, finance charge rates and other types of finance or service charges, the nature of the risk the lender is willing to assume and the type of security, if any, required by the lender. These competitive pressures may increase and could negatively impact our ability to market our products and services effectively, our ability to attract and retain customers, our ability to generate new business credit card receivables and our profitability. See “Item 1. Business — Competition” for further discussion. We may make investments in innovation, new lines of business, new business strategies and ideas that may disrupt our ongoing business and may not be successful. We have invested, and in the future may invest, in new business ideas and strategies, new lines of business, initiatives to innovate our ongoing business and strategy, and resources, including human resources, to implement any of the foregoing. These efforts involve investments of financial resources, employees’ time and other human resources and involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management and other personnel from current operations, inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset expenses associated with the endeavor and the potential identification of risks and issues that were not known or discovered before we invested in the initiative. Because these investments are inherently risky and uncertain, there can be no assurance that the investments, strategies or initiatives will be successful or profitable and will not negatively affect the Company’s operating results or financial condition. Our business and business prospects could be negatively impacted if our reputation is damaged. We are exposed to risk to our reputation which can result from alleged conduct in a number of areas, including marketing, lending and pricing practices, corporate governance and actions taken by legislators, regulators, customers or parties with whom we have a business relationship. Our reputation could also be harmed by even the appearance of not adequately addressing these or other similar potential issues that may arise. If these or other similar issues were to arise we could face increased risk of litigation, fines or penalties as well as increased costs and expenses to address the issues, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or our ability to conduct our business. Loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. We may not be able to retain talented employees or to replace or succeed key executive officers or key personnel with qualified personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 