Item 1a Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Our disclosures and analysis in this report contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations of future events or future financial performance. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often use words such as “anticipate”, “estimate”, “expect”, “project”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe” and other similar terms. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this report may prove to be incorrect. They may be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by risks and uncertainties which are either unknown or not fully known or understood. Accordingly, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in this report. We sometimes provide forecasts of future financial performance. The risks and uncertainties described under “Risk Factors” as well as other risks identified from time to time in other Securities and Exchange Commission reports, registration statements and public announcements, among others, should be considered in evaluating our prospects for the future. We undertake no obligation to release updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following factors represent what we believe are the major risks and uncertainties in our business, including risks inherent in discontinued operations. They are listed in no particular order. Cyclical changes in the markets we serve could result in a significant decrease in demand for our products, which may reduce our profitability and/or our cash flow. Our components are used in various products sold in the electronics market. Generally these markets are cyclical based on the end consumers’ demand, so interest in our components also reflects the overall demand for products in the electronics market. A contraction in the electronics market would result in a decrease in sales of our products, as our customers: · may cancel existing orders; · may introduce fewer new products; · may discontinue current product lines; and · may decrease their inventory levels. A decrease in demand for our products could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, profitability and cash flows which may adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to retire debt or our ability to comply with debt covenants. Accordingly, we may experience volatility in our revenues, profits and cash flows. Reduced prices for our products may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to reduce our cost structure. The average selling prices for our products tend to decrease over their life cycle. In addition, foreign currency movements and the desire to retain market share increase the pressure on our customers to seek lower prices from their suppliers. As a result, our customers are likely to continue to demand lower prices from us. To maintain our margins and remain profitable, we must continue to meet our customers’ design needs while concurrently reducing costs through efficient raw material procurement, process and product improvements and focusing our operating expense levels. Our profit margins and cash flows may suffer if we are unable to reduce our overall cost structure relative to decreases in sales prices. Rising raw material and production costs may decrease our gross margin. We use commodities such as copper and plastic resins in manufacturing our products. Prices of these and other raw materials have experienced significant volatility in the past. Other manufacturing costs, such as direct and indirect labor, energy, freight and packaging costs, also directly impact the costs of our products. If we are unable to pass these increased costs to our customers or recover the increased costs through production efficiencies, our gross margins may suffer. 8 Table of Contents An inability to adequately respond to changes in technology, applicable standards or customer needs may decrease our sales. We operate in an industry characterized by rapid change caused by the frequent emergence of new technologies and standards. Generally, we expect life cycles for products in the electronic components industry to be relatively short. This requires us to anticipate and respond rapidly to changes in industry standards and customer needs, and, also, to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely and cost effective basis. Our engineering and development teams place a priority on working closely with our customers to design innovative products and to improve our manufacturing processes. Improving performance and reducing costs for our customers requires the continual development of new products and/or improvement to the components of existing products. Our inability to react quickly and efficiently to changes in technology, standards or customer needs may decrease our sales or margins. If our inventory becomes obsolete, then our future performance and operating results will be adversely affected. The life cycles of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products for which our products are designed. End products with short life cycles require us to closely manage our production and inventory levels, as adverse changes in end market demand may make our products obsolete. Specifically, during market slowdowns this may result in significant charges for inventory write-offs. Our future operating results may be adversely affected by material levels of inventory reserves for obsolete or excess inventory. Our decisions to strategically divest current businesses or our inability to capitalize on prior or future acquisitions may adversely affect our business. We have completed numerous acquisitions and divestitures in the past and we may continue to seek acquisitions to grow our businesses or divest operations to focus on our core businesses. We may fail to derive significant benefits from such transactions. Also, if we fail to achieve sufficient financial performance from an acquisition, certain long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment and goodwill and other intangible assets, could become impaired and result in the recognition of an impairment loss similar to the losses recorded in 2009 and 2010. The success of our acquisitions depends on our ability to: · successfully execute the integration or consolidation of the acquired operations into our existing businesses; · develop or modify the financial reporting and information systems of the acquired entity to ensure overall financial integrity and adequacy of internal control procedures; · identify and take advantage of cost reduction opportunities; and · further penetrate existing markets with the product capabilities we may acquire. Integration of acquisitions may take longer than we expect and may never be achieved to the extent originally anticipated. This could result in lower than expected business growth or higher than anticipated costs. In addition, acquisitions may: · cause a disruption in our ongoing business; · distract our managers; · increase our debt and leverage; · unduly burden other resources in our company; and · result in an inability to maintain our historical standards, procedures and controls, which may result in non-compliance with external laws and regulations or contractual requirements. Alternatively, we may also consider making strategic divestitures, which may also: · cause a disruption in our ongoing business; · distract our managers; · unduly burden other resources in our company; and · result in an inability to maintain our historical standards, procedures and controls, which may result in non-compliance with external laws and regulations or contractual requirements. We may record impairment losses in the future. We assess the impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an asset’s carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include significant changes in the use of any asset, changes in trends of historical operating performance, a significant decline in the price of our common stock, changes in projected operating performance and significant negative economic trends. 9 Table of Contents An inability to identify, consummate or integrate acquisitions or a lack of appropriate investment in capital expenditure and research, development and engineering may slow our future growth. We may identify and possibly consummate additional acquisitions in the future to further diversify our businesses and to penetrate or expand important markets. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices. Even if we identify promising acquisition candidates, the timing, price, structure and success of future acquisitions are uncertain. An inability to consummate or integrate attractive acquisitions may reduce our growth rate and our ability to penetrate new markets. We remain committed to technological development through investing in research, development and engineering activities focused on designing next-generation products, improving our existing products and improving our manufacturing processes. If we determine that any of our manufacturing processes would benefit from capital investment, we may allocate resources to fund the expansion of property, plant and equipment used in these processes. An inability to allocate resources to the appropriate investment or an inability to allocate the appropriate amount of resources to an investment may reduce our ability to grow organically. If any of our major customers terminates a substantial amount of existing agreements, chooses not to enter into new agreements or elects not to submit additional purchase orders for our products, then our business may suffer. Most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. We have a concentration of several primary customers that we rely on for a material amount of these purchase orders. To the extent we have agreements in place with these customers, most of these agreements are either short-term in nature or provide these customers with the ability to terminate the arrangement. Such agreements typically do not provide us with any material recourse in the event of non-renewal or early termination. We will lose business and our revenues may decrease if one or more of these major customers: · does not submit additional purchase orders; · does not enter into new agreements with us; · elects to reduce or prolong their purchase orders; or · elects to terminate their relationship with us. If we do not effectively manage our business when facing fluctuations in the size of our organization, then our business may be disrupted. We have grown both organically and as a result of acquisitions. We have also contracted as a result of declines in global demand and through divestitures. We may significantly reduce or expand our workforce and facilities in response to rapid changes in demand for our products due to prevailing global market conditions. These rapid fluctuations place strains on our resources and systems. If we do not effectively manage our resources and systems, our business may be adversely affected. Uncertainty in demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have very little visibility into our customers’ future purchasing patterns and are highly dependent on customer forecasts. However, these forecasts are non-binding and can often significantly change. Given the fluctuation in growth rates and the occasional cyclicality of demand for our products, as well as our reliance on our customer’s forecasts, it is difficult to accurately manage our production schedule, equipment and personnel needs, as well as our raw material and working capital requirements. Our failure to effectively manage these issues may result in: · production delays; · increased costs of production; · excessive inventory levels and reduced financial liquidity; · an inability to make timely deliveries; and · a decrease in profits or cash flows. 10 Table of Contents A decrease in the availability of our key raw materials could adversely affect our profit margins. We use several types of raw materials in the manufacturing of our products, including: · base metals such as copper; · ferrite cores; and · plastics and plastic resins. Some of these materials are only produced by a limited number of suppliers. The limited amount of suppliers may restrict our ability to obtain these raw materials in sufficient quantities, at reasonable prices or in a timely manner to meet customer demand for our products. A lack of availability or a delay in obtaining any of the raw materials used in our products could adversely affect our manufacturing costs and profit margins. In addition, if the price of our raw materials increases significantly over a short period of time due to increased market demand or shortage of supply, customers may be unwilling to bear the increased price for our products and we may be forced to sell our products containing these materials at lower prices causing a reduction in our profit margins. Competition may result in reduced demand for our products and reduce our sales. We frequently encounter strong competition within individual product lines from various competitors throughout the world. We compete principally on the basis of: · engineering expertise; · product quality and reliability; · global design and manufacturing capabilities; · breadth of product line; · price; · customer service; and · delivery time. Our inability to successfully compete on any or all of the above or other factors may result in reduced sales. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results. We manufacture and sell our products in various regions of the world and export and import these products to and from a large number of countries. Fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively impact our cost of production and sales which, in turn, could decrease our operating results and cash flow. In addition, if the functional currency of our manufacturing costs strengthen as compared to the functional currency of our competitors’ manufacturing costs, our products may become more costly than our competitors. Although we engage in limited derivative transactions, including foreign currency forward contracts, which may reduce our transaction and economic exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, these measures may not eliminate or substantially reduce our risk in the future. Our international operations subject us to the risks of unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in other countries. We manufacture and assemble most of our products in locations outside the United States, such as China, and a majority of our revenues are derived from sales to customers outside the United States. Our future operations and earnings may be adversely affected by the risks related to, or any other problems arising from, operating in international locations and markets. Risks inherent in doing business internationally may include: · the inability to repatriate or transfer cash on a timely or efficient basis; · economic and political instability; · expropriation and nationalization; · trade restrictions; · capital and exchange control programs; · transportation delays; · uncertain rules of law; and · unexpected changes in the laws and policies of the United States or of the countries in which we manufacture and sell our products. 11 Table of Contents The majority of our manufacturing occurs in the PRC. Although the PRC has a large and growing economy, its political, legal and labor developments entail uncertainties and risks. For example, at certain times in the past we have encountered difficulties in attracting and retaining the level of labor required to meet our customers’ demands. Also, wages have been increasing rapidly over the last several years in China. While China has been receptive to foreign investment, its investment policies may not continue indefinitely into the future and future policy changes may adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations in these countries or the costs of such operations. We have benefited in prior years from favorable tax incentives and we operate in countries where we realize favorable income tax treatment relative to the U.S. statutory rate. We have been granted special tax incentives, including tax holidays, in jurisdictions such as the PRC. This favorable situation could change if these countries were to increase rates or discontinue the special tax incentives, or if we discontinue our manufacturing operations in any of these countries and do not replace them with operations in locations with similar tax incentives or policies. Accordingly, in the event of changes in laws and regulations affecting our international operations, we may not be able to continue to recognize or take advantage of similar benefits in the future. Shifting our operations between regions may result in considerable expense, capital and opportunity costs. Within countries in which we operate, particularly China, we sometimes shift our operations from one region to another in order to maximize manufacturing and operational efficiency. We may open or close one or more additional factories in the future to promote such efficiency. Also, we may shift operations outside of China to expand our operations into locations with new opportunities. Any relocation of our manufacturing could entail significant expenses and cash payments to account for severance, asset impairments, write-offs, write-downs, moving expenses, start-up costs and initial production inefficiencies, as well as certain adverse tax consequences including the loss of specialized tax incentives, non-deductible expenses or value-added tax consequences. Liquidity requirements could necessitate movements of existing cash balances which may be subject to restrictions or may cause unfavorable tax and earnings consequences. A significant portion of our cash is held offshore by international subsidiaries and may be denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. While we intend to use a significant amount of the cash held overseas to fund our international operations and growth, if we encounter a significant need for liquidity domestically or at a particular location that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings, or other internal or external sources, we may experience unfavorable tax and earnings consequences due to cash transfers. For example, these adverse consequences would occur if the transfer of cash into the United States is taxed with no available foreign tax credit to offset the U.S. tax liability, resulting in lower earnings. Also, we may be prohibited or significantly delayed when transferring cash from a country such as the PRC, as there are foreign exchange ceilings imposed by local governments and often lengthy approval processes which foreign governments require for international cash transfers. We have not experienced any significant liquidity restrictions in any of the countries in which we operate and we do not presently foresee any. Currently, a majority owned subsidiary holds approximately $14.8 million of our consolidated cash and cash equivalents. Permanent access to funds from this subsidiary could be in the form of a dividend to its shareholders, which could result in income withholding taxes and distributions to minority shareholders. As of December 31, 2010 there are no plans to repatriate funds held at this majority owned subsidiary. During the first quarter of 2011, this majority owned subsidiary announced a plan to purchase its own common stock that is publically traded on a foreign exchange. As of the date these financial statements were issued, the majority owned subsidiary had purchased approximately $3.5 million of its own common stock with its cash on hand. Such spending may continue under similar common stock buy back plans in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2010, our retained earnings are free from legal or contractual restrictions, with the exception of approximately $29.8 million of subsidiary retained earnings, primarily in China that are restricted in accordance with the PRC Foreign Investment Enterprises Law. This law restricts 10% of our net earnings in China, up to a maximum amount equal to 50% of the total capital we have invested. The $29.8 million includes approximately $6.7 million of retained earnings of a majority owned subsidiary. Losing the services of our executive officers or other highly qualified and experienced employees could adversely affect our businesses. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and senior management, many of whom have numerous years of experience and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and maintain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is often intense, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lose the services of these key employees or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our businesses could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents During the third quarter of 2010, our former Chief Executive Officer resigned and our Board of Directors appointed Drew A. Moyer, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to the additional positions of interim President and Chief Executive Officer, effective August 1, 2010. On January 5, 2011, our Board of Directors appointed Ralph E. Faison to the position of permanent President and Chief Executive Officer, replacing Mr. Moyer. Mr. Moyer will remain with the company as Chief Financial Officer, a role he has held since 2004. On February 10, 2011, we announced that our corporate headquarters, currently located in Trevose, Pennsylvania, will be consolidated into our U.S. operational headquarters in San Diego, California. We are now a pure-play electronic components provider, which has made a corporate structure with a stand-alone corporate headquarters and senior managers at two locations no longer efficient. This consolidation will occur in 2011 in connection with our actions to simplify and streamline our company’s organizational structure. We are currently in the preliminary stage of transition and are formulating an overall plan which includes transferring certain employees of our corporate headquarters to our operational headquarters, additional staffing at our operational headquarters and transition plans for those employees who will not relocate. Public health epidemics (such as flu strains or severe acute respiratory syndrome) or natural disasters (such as earthquakes or fires) may disrupt operations in affected regions and affect operating results. We maintain extensive manufacturing operations in the PRC, similar to many of our customers and suppliers. A sustained interruption of our manufacturing operations, or those of our customers or suppliers, resulting from complications caused by a public health epidemic or a natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. The unavailability of insurance against certain business and product liability risks may adversely affect our future operating results. As part of our comprehensive risk management program, we purchase insurance coverage against certain business and product liability risks. However, not all risks are insurable and those that are insured may differ in the amount covered due to the type of risk, end market and customer location. If any of our insurance carriers discontinues an insurance policy, significantly reduces available coverage or increases our deductibles and we cannot find another insurance carrier to provide comparable coverage at similar costs or we are not fully insured for a particular risk in a particular place, than we may be subject to increased costs of uninsured or under-insured losses which may adversely affect our operating results. Also, our components, modules and other products are used in a broad array of representative end products. If our insurance program does not adequately cover liabilities arising from the direct use of our products or liabilities that arise from use of our customers’ products, we may be subject to increased costs of uninsured losses which may adversely affect our operating results. Environmental liability and compliance obligations may adversely affect our operations and results. Our manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, as well as internal programs and policies governing: · air emissions; · wastewater discharges; · the storage, use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and chemicals; and · employee health and safety. If violations of environmental laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties, fines and remedial actions for contamination discovered at our present or former facilities. Our operations and results could be adversely affected by any material obligations arising from existing laws or new regulations that may be enacted in the future. We may also be held liable for past disposal of hazardous substances generated by our business or businesses we acquire. Our debt levels could adversely affect our financial position, our liquidity and the perception of our financial condition in the financial markets. We were in compliance with the covenants of our credit agreement as of December 31, 2010. Outstanding borrowings under this agreement, which allows for a maximum facility of $100.0 million, were $32.2 million at December 31, 2010. In addition to the debt outstanding under our credit agreement, we issued $50.0 million of convertible senior notes during the fourth quarter of 2009. 13 Table of Contents Covenants with our lenders require compliance with specific financial ratios that may make it difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms for future acquisitions or other corporate needs. Although we anticipate meeting our covenants in the normal course of operations, our ability to remain in compliance with the covenants may be adversely affected by future events potentially beyond our control. Violating any of these covenants could result in being declared in default, which may result in our lenders electing to declare our outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to repay our credit facilities or other indebtedness. In addition, certain domestic and international subsidiaries have pledged the shares of certain subsidiaries, as well as selected accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment and other assets as collateral. If we default on our obligations, our lenders may take possession of the collateral and may license, sell or otherwise dispose of those related assets in order to satisfy our obligations. Our results may be negatively affected by changing interest rates. We are subject to market risk exposure related to changes in interest rates. To mitigate the risk of changing interest rates, we may utilize derivatives or other financial instruments. We do not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on our income or cash flows for the foreseeable future, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not significantly change or that our results would not be materially affected by such adverse changes. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected or third parties may claim we have violated their intellectual property rights. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property through patent laws, other regulations or by contract. As a result, other companies may be able to develop and market similar products which could materially and adversely affect our market share. Also, we may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which may result in defense costs, royalty obligations or the overall loss of the right to use technology important to our business. From time to time, we receive claims by third parties asserting that our products violate their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management’s attention from administering our business. A third party asserting infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to our current or future products may have a material and adverse effect on our business. For example, it may cause us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or force us to incur settlement or litigation costs. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. In addition, the market price of our common stock may rise and fall in response to the following factors, or based on the perception or anticipation of the following factors: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · divestitures of core and non-core businesses; · the gain or loss of a significant customer or order; · the existence of debt levels in excess of our cash levels; · changes in our liquidity, capital resources or financial position; · changes in estimates or forecasts of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts regarding us, our competitors or our industry; · general market or economic conditions; or · future business prospects. 14 Table of Contents Complications with our current enterprise resource planning system (“ERP”) or a transition to an updated ERP system may disrupt operations and affect our operating results. We currently operate an ERP system that is reaching the end of its useful life. This system is used at the majority of our locations for primarily all areas of operation, including purchasing, logistics and finance. A disruption or failure with any component or module of our ERP system may result in a delay to our operations, which could negatively affect our financial results. We are currently evaluating several options to address this risk, including a full replacement of the system. If we choose to implement a new ERP system, then we would be subjected to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing our systems, including the following: · the ability to accept and fulfill customer orders; · the potential disruption of our internal control structure; · the use of funds for the software and training; and · an overall strain on management resources. Also, an implementation of a new ERP may not result in financial gains which fully offset the potential costs of implementation. Item 1b Unresolved SEC Comments None 15 Table of Contents 