Item 1a Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and any of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The following risks, among others, could cause our actual results, performance, achievements or industry results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements contained herein and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. Cyclical changes in the markets we serve could result in a significant decrease in demand for our products, which may reduce our profitability and/or our cash flow. Our components are used in various products sold in the electronics market. Generally, these markets are cyclical based on the end consumers’ demand, so interest in our components also reflects the overall demand for products in the electronics market. A contraction in the electronics market would result in a decrease in sales of our products, as our customers: • may cancel existing orders; • may introduce fewer new products; • may discontinue current product lines; and • may decrease their inventory levels. A decrease in demand for our products could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, profitability and cash flows, which may adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to retire debt or our ability to comply with debt covenants. Accordingly, we may experience volatility in our revenues, profits and cash flows. Our debt levels could adversely affect our financial position, our liquidity and the perception of our financial condition in the financial markets. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of March 2014, we had aggregate indebtedness, excluding debt discounts, of approximately $134.2 million with interest rates on our Term A and B Loans of 12.0% and 10.0%, respectively. Our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and • increasing our costs of borrowing. The terms of our debt restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. Covenants with our lenders require compliance with specific financial ratios that may make it difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms for future acquisitions or other corporate needs. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we did not meet certain of these financial covenants. Oaktree Capital Management L.P. and affiliates (collectively, “Oaktree”) agreed to forbear from taking any action, including acceleration of payment of the term loans, if we fail to satisfy these covenants in the fourth quarter of 2012 and in 2013 in a forbearance and commitment letter dated March 11, 2013. Oaktree agreed to a forbearance with respect to the Secured Leverage Ratio, calculated as the ratio of consolidated secured debt, which includes the Oaktree term loans, and our rolling four quarters’ EBITDA, and the Total Net Debt Leverage Ratio, calculated as the ratio of (a) the sum of consolidated debt, which includes the Oaktree term loans and senior convertible notes, less unrestricted cash (as defined) and (b) our rolling four quarters’ EBITDA. On February 21, 2014, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement, which provides some relief from our financial covenants with respect to the Secured Leverage Ratio, Total Net Debt Leverage Ratio and Minimum Liquidity covenants. Furthermore, for periods after December 27, 2013, the amended credit agreement will relieve us from having to comply with the covenant that previously required us not to permit the Total Net Debt Leverage Ratio to exceed certain specified ratios. 9 Table of Contents Although we anticipate meeting our covenants in the future, our ability to remain in compliance with the covenants may be adversely affected by future events potentially beyond our control. Violating any of these covenants could result in being declared in default, which may result in our lenders electing to declare our outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to repay our credit facilities or other indebtedness. In addition, certain domestic and international subsidiaries have pledged the shares of certain subsidiaries, as well as accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, intellectual property and other assets as collateral. If we default on our obligations, our lenders may take possession of the collateral and may license, sell or otherwise dispose of those related assets in order to satisfy our obligations. Refer to Note 6, Debt, to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of our debt covenants. Our primary lender and majority stockholder, Oaktree, may have interests that diverge from our interests and the interests of other security holders. Oaktree is our primary creditor and beneficially owns a majority of our common stock. Oaktree may have interests that diverge from our interests and the interests of other security holders. In addition, so long as Oaktree maintains ownership at specified thresholds, it has the right to nominate a majority of our board of directors and will be entitled to certain information rights and a right to participate in future offerings of our equity securities. Oaktree is in the business of investing in companies and is not restricted by contract from investing in our current or future competitors. Future events may give rise to a divergence of interests between Oaktree and us or our other security holders that would have a material adverse effect on our Company. Oaktree’s ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Oaktree’s ownership and control may also limit our ability to issue stock, incur further debt, or dispose of any material assets of the Company or its subsidiaries. Oaktree and affiliates can exercise significant control over the Company. Oaktree beneficially owns a majority equity position in us. As a result, as long as Oaktree maintains ownership at specified thresholds, it has the right to nominate a majority of our board of directors, and therefore, has the ability to exert actual control over our management policies and affairs, the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders, including amendments to the our organizational documents, any proposed merger or other business combination, our financing, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. In addition, Oaktree is entitled to certain information rights and a right to participate in future offerings of our equity securities. This concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change of control, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Oaktree’s ownership and control may also limit our ability to issue stock, incur further debt, or dispose of any material assets of the Company or its subsidiaries. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE Listed Company Manual and, as a result, qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance standards, which may limit the presence of independent directors on our board of directors or board committees. Oaktree beneficially owns a majority equity position in the Company. Accordingly, it has the ability to elect our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs. Therefore, we are a “controlled company” for purposes of Section 303(A) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements, including requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended for selection by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We currently do not rely on any of these exemptions, but we cannot provide any assurance that we will not utilize one or more of these exemptions in the future. 10 Table of Contents Reduced prices for our products may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to reduce our cost structure. The average selling prices for our products tend to decrease over their life cycle. In addition, foreign currency movements and the desire to retain market share increase the pressure on our customers to seek lower prices from their suppliers. As a result, our customers are likely to continue to demand lower prices from us. To maintain our margins and remain profitable, we must continue to meet our customers’ design needs while concurrently reducing costs through efficient raw material procurement, process and product improvements and reducing our operating expense levels. Our profit margins and cash flows may suffer if we are unable to reduce our overall cost structure relative to decreases in sales prices. Rising raw material and production costs may decrease our gross margin. We use commodities such as copper and plastic resins in manufacturing our products. Prices of these and other raw materials have experienced significant volatility in the past. Other manufacturing costs, such as direct and indirect labor, energy, freight and packaging costs, also directly impact the costs of our products. If we are unable to pass these increased costs to our customers or recover the increased costs through production efficiencies, our gross margins may suffer. An inability to adequately respond to changes in technology, applicable standards or customer needs may decrease our sales. We operate in an industry characterized by rapid change caused by the frequent emergence of new technologies and standards. Generally, we expect life cycles for products in the electronic components industry to be relatively short. This requires us to anticipate and respond rapidly to changes in industry standards and customer needs, and, also, to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our engineering and development teams place a priority on working closely with our customers to design innovative products and to improve our manufacturing processes. Improving performance and reducing costs for our customers requires the continual development of new products and/or improvement to the components of existing products. Our inability to react quickly and efficiently to changes in technology, standards or customer needs may decrease our sales or margins. If our inventory becomes obsolete, it may adversely affect our future performance and operating results. The life cycles of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products for which our products are designed. End products with short life cycles require us to closely manage our production and inventory levels, as adverse changes in end market demand may make our products obsolete. Specifically, during market slowdowns, this may result in significant charges for inventory write-offs. Our future operating results may be adversely affected by material levels of inventory reserves for obsolete or excess inventory. Our decisions to strategically divest current businesses or our inability to capitalize on prior or future acquisitions may adversely affect our business. We have completed numerous acquisitions and divestitures in the past and we may continue to seek acquisitions to grow our businesses. We may also divest operations to focus on our core businesses. We may fail to derive significant benefits from such transactions. Also, if we fail to achieve sufficient financial performance from an acquisition, certain long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, could become impaired and result in the recognition of an impairment loss. The success of our acquisitions depends on our ability to: • successfully execute the integration or consolidation of the acquired operations into our existing businesses; • develop or modify the financial reporting and information systems of the acquired entity to ensure overall financial integrity and adequacy of internal control procedures; • identify and take advantage of cost reduction opportunities; and • further penetrate existing markets with the product capabilities we may acquire. Integration of acquisitions may take longer than we expect and may never be achieved to the extent originally anticipated. This could result in lower than expected business growth or higher than anticipated costs. In addition, acquisitions may: 11 Table of Contents • cause a disruption in our ongoing business; • distract our managers; • increase our debt and leverage; • unduly burden other resources in our company; and • result in an inability to maintain our historical standards, procedures and controls, which may result in non-compliance with external laws and regulations or contractual requirements. Alternatively, we may also consider making strategic divestitures, which may also: • cause a disruption in our ongoing business; • distract our managers; • unduly burden other resources in our company; and • result in an inability to maintain our historical standards, procedures and controls, which may result in non-compliance with external laws and regulations or contractual requirements. We may record impairment losses in the future. We assess the impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an asset’s carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include significant changes in the use of any asset, changes in trends of historical operating performance, a significant decline in the price of our common stock, changes in projected operating performance and significant negative economic trends. An inability to identify, consummate or integrate acquisitions or a lack of appropriate investment in capital expenditure and research, development and engineering may slow our future growth. We may identify and possibly consummate acquisitions in the future to penetrate or expand important markets and to grow our business. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices. Even if we identify promising acquisition candidates, the timing, price, structure and success of future acquisitions are uncertain. An inability to consummate or integrate attractive acquisitions may reduce our growth rate and our ability to penetrate new markets. We remain committed to technological development through investing in research, development and engineering activities focused on designing next-generation products, improving our existing products and improving our manufacturing processes. If we determine that any of our manufacturing processes would benefit from capital investment, we may allocate resources to fund the expansion of property, plant and equipment used in these processes. An inability to allocate resources to the appropriate investment or an inability to allocate the appropriate amount of resources to an investment may reduce our ability to grow organically. If any of our major customers terminates a substantial amount of existing agreements, chooses not to enter into new agreements or elects not to submit additional purchase orders for our products, then our business may suffer. Our sales are predominantly made on a purchase order basis. We have a concentration of several primary customers that we rely on for a material amount of these purchase orders. To the extent we have agreements in place with these customers, most of these agreements are either short-term in nature or provide these customers with the ability to terminate the arrangement. Such agreements typically do not provide us with any material recourse in the event of non-renewal or early termination. We will lose business and our revenues may decrease if one or more of these major customers: • does not submit additional purchase orders; • does not enter into new agreements with us; • elects to reduce or delay their purchase orders; or • elects to terminate their relationship with us. If we do not effectively manage our business when facing fluctuations in the size of our organization, then our business may be disrupted. We have changed our capacity as a result of declines in global demand and through divestitures. We may significantly reduce or expand our workforce and facilities in response to rapid changes in demand for our products due to prevailing global market conditions. These rapid fluctuations place strains on our resources and systems. If we do not effectively manage our resources and systems, our business may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Uncertainty in demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have very little visibility into our customers’ future purchasing patterns and are highly dependent on customer forecasts. However, these forecasts are non-binding and can often significantly change. Given the fluctuation in growth rates and the occasional cyclicality of demand for our products, as well as our reliance on our customers’ forecasts, it is difficult to accurately manage our production schedule, equipment and personnel needs, as well as our raw material and working capital requirements. Our failure to effectively manage these issues may result in: • production delays; • increased costs of production; • excessive inventory levels and reduced financial liquidity; • an inability to make timely deliveries; and • a decrease in profits or cash flows. A decrease in the availability of our key raw materials could adversely affect our profit margins. We use several types of raw materials in the manufacturing of our products, including: • base metals such as copper; • ferrite cores; • plastics and plastic resins; and • rare earth metals. Some of these materials are only produced by a limited number of suppliers. The limited amount of suppliers may restrict our ability to obtain these raw materials in sufficient quantities, at reasonable prices or in a timely manner to meet customer demand for our products. A lack of availability or a delay in obtaining any of the raw materials used in our products could adversely affect our manufacturing costs and profit margins. In addition, if the price of our raw materials increases significantly over a short period of time due to increased market demand or shortage of supply, customers may be unwilling to bear the increased price for our products and we may be forced to sell our products containing these materials at lower prices causing a reduction in our profit margins. Our operating results may be adversely affected by new regulations relating to the sourcing of certain raw materials. The products we manufacture utilize materials that are impacted by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) requirement for disclosure of the use of “conflict minerals” mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. We are in the process of determining the country of origin of certain metals that we purchase from our suppliers, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under regulations promulgated pursuant to that Act, we will be required to submit a report regarding our usage of conflict minerals in May 2014. The supply chain due diligence and verification of sources is complex and requires substantial effort to arrive at a substantive conclusion. We are in the process of aggregating and assessing preliminary responses from our vendors. We may conclude that our full compliance is undeterminable for our 2014 declaration as we continue to finalize the required due diligence processes. If after conducting supply chain due diligence and verification of sources, we conclude that we are required to make changes to our supply chain, we may not be able to obtain such minerals at acceptable prices and there may be additional costs associated with complying with the Dodd-Frank Act. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy customers who require that all of the components in our products are certified as conflict free. If we are unable to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier. Competition may result in reduced demand for our products and reduce our sales. We operate in a highly competitive worldwide industry, with relatively low barriers to competitive entry. We frequently encounter strong competition within individual product lines from various competitors throughout the world, some of which are larger than us and have significantly greater financial resources and technological capabilities. We compete principally on the basis of: • engineering expertise; • product quality and reliability; 13 Table of Contents • global design and manufacturing capabilities; • breadth of product line; • price; • customer service; and • delivery time. Our inability to successfully compete on any or all of the above or other factors may result in reduced sales. Products we manufacture may contain design or manufacturing defects that could result in reduced demand for our products or services and liability claims against us. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, defects may occur in the products we manufacture due to design or manufacturing errors or component failure. Product defects may result in delayed shipments and reduced demand for our products. We may be subject to increased costs due to warranty claims on defective products. We may be required to participate in a recall involving products which are, or are alleged to be, defective. We carry insurance for certain legal matters involving product liability; however, we do not have coverage for all costs related to product defects and the costs of such claims, including costs of defense and settlement, may exceed our available coverage. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results. We manufacture and sell our products in various regions of the world and export and import these products to and from a large number of countries. Fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively impact our cost of production and sales which, in turn, could decrease our operating results and cash flow. In addition, if the functional currency of our manufacturing costs strengthens as compared to the functional currency of our competitors’ manufacturing costs, our products may become more costly than our competitors. Our international operations subject us to the risks of unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in other countries. We manufacture and assemble most of our products in locations outside the United States, primarily in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC” or China), and a majority of our revenues are derived from sales to customers outside the United States. Our future operations and earnings may be adversely affected by the risks related to, or any other problems arising from, operating in international locations and markets. Risks inherent in doing business internationally may include: • the inability to repatriate or transfer cash on a timely or efficient basis; • economic and political instability; • expropriation and nationalization; • trade restrictions; • capital and exchange control programs; • transportation delays; • uncertain rules of law; and • uncertain changes in the laws and policies of the United States or of the countries in which we manufacture and sell our products. The majority of our manufacturing occurs in the PRC. Although the PRC has a large and growing economy, its political, legal and labor developments entail uncertainties and risks. For example, the availability of labor is highly seasonal and is significantly affected by the migration of workers in relation to the annual Lunar New Year holiday as well as economic conditions in the PRC. At certain times in the past we have encountered difficulties in attracting and retaining the level of labor required to meet our customers’ demands. Also, wages and benefits have been increasing rapidly over the last several years in China. While China has been receptive to foreign investment, its investment policies may not continue indefinitely into the future and future policy changes may adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations in these countries or the costs of such operations. We have benefited in prior years from favorable tax incentives and we operate in countries where we realize favorable income tax treatment relative to the U.S. statutory rate. We have been granted special tax incentives, including tax holidays, in jurisdictions such as the PRC. This favorable situation could change if these countries were to increase rates or discontinue the special tax incentives, or if we discontinue our manufacturing operations in any of these countries and do not replace them with operations in locations with similar tax incentives or policies. Accordingly, in the event of changes in laws and regulations affecting our international operations, we may not be able to continue to recognize or take advantage of similar benefits in the future. 14 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Liquidity requirements could necessitate movements of existing cash balances, which may be subject to restrictions or may cause unfavorable tax and earnings consequences. A significant portion of our cash is held offshore by international subsidiaries and may be denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. While we intend to use a significant amount of the cash held overseas to fund our international operations and growth, if we encounter a significant need for liquidity domestically or at a particular location that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings, or other internal or external sources, we may experience unfavorable tax and earnings consequences due to necessary cash transfers. For example, these adverse consequences would occur if the transfer of cash into the United States is taxed with no available foreign tax credit to offset the U.S. tax liability, resulting in lower net earnings. Also, we may be prohibited or significantly delayed when transferring cash from a country such as the PRC, as there are foreign exchange ceilings imposed by local governments and often lengthy approval processes, which foreign governments require for international cash transfers. We have not experienced any significant liquidity restrictions in any of the countries in which we operate and we do not presently foresee any. At December 27, 2013, the Company’s majority owned foreign subsidiary located in Taiwan and its subsidiaries held approximately $12.7 million of our total consolidated cash and cash equivalents. Permanent access to funds from this subsidiary could be in the form of a dividend to its shareholders, which could result in income withholding taxes and distributions to minority shareholders. During fiscal 2012, this majority owned subsidiary declared a dividend of approximately $7.0 million, which was paid in November 2012. Distributions to minority shareholders, withholding and other taxes reduced the net proceeds of the dividend to the Company to approximately $4.8 million. Access to this subsidiary's cash in the future could be subject to similar offsets. Losing the services of our executive officers or other highly qualified and experienced employees could adversely affect our businesses. Our success depends upon the contributions of our executive officers and senior management, many of whom have numerous years of experience and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and maintain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is often intense, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lose the services of these key employees or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our businesses could be adversely affected. We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. In the past, we have undertaken initiatives to restructure our business operations with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. These initiatives have included changing the number and location of our production facilities, largely to align our capacity and infrastructure with current and anticipated customer demand. This alignment includes transferring programs from higher cost geographies to lower cost geographies. The process of restructuring entails, among other activities, moving production between facilities, closing facilities, reducing the level of staff, realigning our business processes and reorganizing our management. 15 Table of Contents We continuously evaluate our operations and cost structure relative to general economic conditions, market demands, tax rates, cost competitiveness and our geographic footprint as it relates to our customers’ production requirements. As a result of this ongoing evaluation, we could initiate future restructuring plans. Restructurings present significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including a decrease in employee morale, delays encountered in finalizing the scope of, and implementing, the restructurings (including extensive consultations concerning potential workforce reductions, particularly in locations outside of the U.S.), the failure to achieve targeted cost savings and the failure to meet operational targets and customer requirements due to the loss of employees and any work stoppages that might occur. These risks are further complicated by our extensive international operations, which subject us to different legal and regulatory requirements that govern the extent and speed of our ability to reduce our manufacturing capacity and workforce. In addition, the current global economic conditions may change how governments regulate restructuring as the recent global recession has impacted local economies. Finally, we may have to obtain agreements from our affected customers for the relocation of our facilities in certain instances. Obtaining these agreements, along with the volatility in our customers’ demand, can further delay restructuring activities. Public health epidemics (such as flu strains or severe acute respiratory syndrome) or natural disasters (such as earthquakes or fires) may disrupt operations in affected regions and affect operating results. We maintain extensive manufacturing operations in the PRC and elsewhere, similar to many of our customers and suppliers. A sustained interruption of our manufacturing operations or those of our customers or suppliers, resulting from complications caused by a public health epidemic or a natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. The unavailability of insurance against certain business and product liability risks may adversely affect our future operating results. As part of our comprehensive risk management program, we purchase insurance coverage against certain business and product liability risks. However, not all risks are insurable and those that are insured may differ in the amount covered due to the type of risk, end market and customer location. If any of our insurance carriers discontinues an insurance policy, significantly reduces available coverage or increases our deductibles and we cannot find another insurance carrier to provide comparable coverage at similar costs or we are not fully insured for a particular risk in a particular place, then we may be subject to increased costs of uninsured or under-insured losses, which may adversely affect our operating results. Also, our components, modules and other products are used in a broad array of representative end products. If our insurance program does not adequately cover liabilities arising from the direct use of our products or liabilities that arise from use of our customers’ products, we may be subject to increased costs of uninsured losses, which may adversely affect our operating results. Environmental liability and compliance obligations may adversely affect our operations and results. Our manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, as well as internal programs and policies governing: • air emissions; • wastewater discharges; • the storage, use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and chemicals; and • employee health and safety. If violations of environmental laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties, fines and remedial actions for contamination discovered at our present or former facilities. Our operations and results could be adversely affected by any material obligations arising from existing laws or new regulations that may be enacted in the future. We may also be held liable for past disposal of hazardous substances generated by our business or businesses we acquire. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. We collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, and damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products, which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position. 16 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. We believe that the following factors, among others, may have had and may continue to have a significant negative impact on the market price and volatility of our common stock: · the notice of non-compliance with listing standards we received from the New York Stock Exchange that we previously announced; · the amount, terms, and timing of our debt obligations; · developments regarding our ability to raise additional capital; · soft market demand conditions in certain primary markets; · economic and other external factors; · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; · variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; · publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry; · strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; · the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry; · speculation in the press or investment community; · changes in accounting principles; · terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest; and · natural disasters and other calamities. Disruptions or volatility in global financial markets could limit our sources of liquidity, or the liquidity of our customers, dealers and suppliers. Global economic conditions may cause volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Since the global economic downturn in 2008, liquidity, credit and credit capacity for certain issuers, including certain of our customers, dealers and suppliers has been restricted. Changes in global economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity in the markets that we serve, and the success of plans to manage cost increases, inventory and other important elements of our business may significantly impact our ability to generate funds from operations. Market volatility, changes in counterparty credit risk, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and general economic conditions may also adversely impact our ability to access capital and credit markets to fund operating needs. An inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. In addition, the global demand for our products generally depends on customers’ ability to pay for our products, which, in turn, depends on their access to funds. Subject to global economic conditions, customers may experience increased difficulty in generating funds from operations. Further, following capital and credit market volatility and uncertainty, many financial institutions have revised their lending standards, thereby decreasing access to capital. If capital and credit market volatility occurs, customers’ liquidity may decline which, in turn, would reduce their ability to purchase our products. Further issuances of our common stock will be dilutive. The market price of our common stock could decline due to the issuance or sale of a large number of shares in the market, including the issuance of shares underlying our remaining convertible notes and warrants to purchase common stock issued in March 2012. To the extent we issue or sell additional shares of common stock to third parties, we may be required to issue additional shares of common stock to Oaktree under a top-up option in the Investment Agreement. The top-up option provides that Oaktree will have the option to purchase a number of additional shares of common stock to retain its ownership percentage in the Company. As of February 21, 2014, its ownership percentage is 69.8% of our outstanding common stock (which reflects Oaktree's beneficial ownership of 65,855 warrants to purchase our common stock). Potential share issuances may have a dilutive effect on our common stock and could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. 17 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected or third parties may claim we have violated their intellectual property rights. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property through patent laws, other regulations or by contract. As a result, other companies may be able to develop and market similar products, which could materially and adversely affect our market share and results of operations. Also, from time to time, we may receive claims asserting that our products, processes or technologies infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. For example, in May 2013, a Federal Court entered a judgment in favor of Halo Electronics, Inc. in its patent infringement suit against us, which we have appealed. The Court imposed a permanent injunction halting the U.S. sale of certain surface mount transformers; however, the Court subsequently issued an emergency stay suspending the injunction through October 15, 2013. Although we do not believe the injunction will have a material adverse impact on our relationship with customers and the sales of our products, particularly in light of the stay and the fact that we have developed new products that we believe will not be determined to infringe third party rights, there can be no assurance that such products will be qualified by, and acceptable to, our customers or that such replacements will not infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management’s attention from administering our business. Third party infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to our current or future products could result in the overall loss of the right to use technology important to our business, could compel us to enter into costly royalty arrangements, and could cause harm to our reputation and the reputation of our customers. Any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we do not meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted. On September 27, 2012, the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE” or the “Exchange”) notified us that we had fallen below the NYSE’s continued listing standard for average market capitalization because we failed to maintain an average market capitalization over a consecutive 30-day trading period of at least $50.0 million and that we must achieve such an average market capitalization over a consecutive 30-day trading period on or before March 27, 2014, or be subject to delisting. The market capitalization requirements provide that the NYSE will promptly initiate suspension and delisting procedures with respect to our common stock if our global market capitalization for 30 consecutive trading days is less than $15.0 million, in which case we would not be eligible to utilize the cure procedures provided by the NYSE in other circumstances. On November 12, 2012, we submitted a plan for remediation of the deficiency related to the market capitalization and stockholders’ equity requirements to the NYSE, which they accepted on January 3, 2013. We are required to provide the Exchange staff with updates in connection with the initiatives of the plan of compliance at least quarterly or upon the Exchange’s request and the Exchange staff will review us periodically for compliance with the plan during the extension periods. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan of compliance or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the applicable extension periods could result in our common stock being delisted from the Exchange. There can be no assurance that we will be able to make progress consistent with its plan to regain compliance with the Exchange’s continued listing standards in a timely manner, or at all. We face the risk that the average market capitalization may not rise to a level necessary to satisfy the NYSE requirements. Furthermore, even if we regain compliance with the continuing listing standards of the NYSE, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to list on the NYSE or any other exchange as a public company. A delisting of our common stock and/or a termination of our public reporting obligations is likely to reduce the liquidity and value of our common stock and may inhibit or preclude our ability to raise additional financing and may also materially and adversely impact our credit terms with our vendors. 18 Table of Contents We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and regulations. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on the Company’s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. Item 1b Unresolved Staff Comments None. 