Item 1a Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Our disclosures and analysis in this report contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations of future events or future financial performance. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often use words such as “anticipate”, “estimate”, “expect”, “project”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe” and similar terms. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this report may prove to be incorrect. They may be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by risks and uncertainties which are either unknown or not fully known or understood. Accordingly, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in this report. We sometimes provide forecasts of future financial performance. The risks and uncertainties described under “Risk Factors” as well as other risks identified from time to time in other Securities and Exchange Commission reports, registration statements and public announcements, among others, should be considered in evaluating our prospects for the future. We undertake no obligation to release updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 7 Table of Contents The following factors represent what we believe are the major risks and uncertainties in our business, including risks inherent in operations which we are in the process of divesting. They are listed in no particular order. Cyclical changes in the markets we serve could result in a significant decrease in demand for our products, which may reduce our profitability and/or our cash flow. Our components are used in various products sold in the electronics market. Markets are cyclical. Generally, the demand for our components reflects the demand for products in the electronics market. A contraction in demand would result in a decrease in sales of our products, as our customers: · may cancel existing orders; · may introduce fewer new products; · may discontinue current products; and · may decrease their inventory levels. A decrease in demand for our products could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, profitability and cash flows which may adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to retire debt or our ability to comply with debt covenants. Accordingly, we may experience volatility in our revenues, profits and cash flows. Reduced prices for our products may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to reduce our cost structure. The average selling prices for our products tend to decrease over their life cycle. In addition, foreign currency movements and the desire to retain market share increase the pressure on our customers to seek lower prices from their suppliers. As a result, our customers are likely to continue to demand lower prices from us. To maintain our margins and remain profitable, we must continue to meet our customers’ design needs while concurrently reducing costs through efficient raw material procurement, process and product improvements and focusing our operating expense levels. Our profit margins and cash flows may suffer if we are unable to reduce our overall cost structure relative to decreases in sales prices. Rising raw material and production costs may decrease our gross margin. We use commodities such as copper and plastic resins in manufacturing our products. Prices of these and other raw materials have experienced significant volatility in the past. Other manufacturing costs, such as direct and indirect labor, energy, freight and packaging costs, also directly impact the costs of our products. If we are unable to pass increased costs through to our customers or recover the increased costs through production efficiencies, our gross margins may suffer. An inability to adequately respond to changes in technology, applicable standards or customer needs may decrease our sales. We operate in an industry characterized by rapid change caused by the frequent emergence of new technologies and standards. Generally, we expect life cycles for products in the electronic components industry to be relatively short. This requires us to anticipate and respond rapidly to changes in industry standards and customer needs and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely and cost effective basis. Our engineering and development teams place a priority on working closely with our customers to design innovative products and improve our manufacturing processes. Improving performance and reducing costs for our customers requires continual development of new products and/or to the components of our products. Our inability to react quickly and efficiently to changes in technology, standards or customers’ needs may decrease our sales or margins. If our inventories become obsolete, our future performance and operating results will be adversely affected. The life cycles of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to closely manage our production and inventory levels. Inventory may become obsolete because of adverse changes in end market demand. During market slowdowns, this may result in significant charges for inventory write-offs. Our future operating results may be adversely affected by material levels of obsolete or excess inventories. 8 Table of Contents An inability to capitalize on our prior or future acquisitions or our decisions to strategically divest our current businesses may adversely affect our business. We have completed numerous acquisitions in the past and we continually seek acquisitions to grow our businesses. We may fail to derive significant benefits from our acquisitions. In addition, if we fail to achieve sufficient financial performance from an acquisition, long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, could become impaired and result in the recognition of an impairment loss similar to the losses recorded in 2009 and 2008. The success of any of our acquisitions depends on our ability to: · successfully execute the integration or consolidation of the acquired operations into our existing businesses; · develop or modify the financial reporting and information systems of the acquired entity to ensure overall financial integrity and adequacy of internal control procedures; · identify and take advantage of cost reduction opportunities; and · further penetrate the markets for the product capabilities acquired. Integration of acquisitions may take longer than we expect and may never be achieved to the extent originally anticipated. This could result in lower than anticipated business growth or higher than anticipated costs. In addition, acquisitions may: · cause a disruption in our ongoing business; · distract our managers; · increase our debt and leverage; · unduly burden our other resources; and · result in an inability to maintain our historical standards, procedures and controls, which may result in non-compliance with external laws and regulations. Alternatively, we may also consider making strategic divestitures, which may: · cause a disruption in our ongoing business; · distract our managers; · unduly burden our other resources; and · result in an inability to maintain our historical standards, procedures and controls, which may result in non-compliance with external laws and regulations. We may record impairment losses in the future. We assess the impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include significant changes in the use of any asset, changes in historical trends in operating performance, a significant decline in the price of our common stock, changes in projected operating performance and significant negative economic trends. Integration of acquisitions may limit the ability of investors to track the performance of individual acquisitions and to analyze trends in our operating results. Our historical practice has been to rapidly integrate acquisitions into our existing business and to report financial performance on a company-wide level. As a result of this practice, we do not separately track the standalone performance of acquisitions after the date of the transaction. Consequently, investors cannot quantify the financial performance and success of any individual acquisition or our consolidated financial performance and success excluding the impact of acquisitions. In addition, our practice of rapidly integrating acquisitions into our financial results may limit the ability of investors to analyze any trends in our operating results over time. An inability to identify, consummate or integrate acquisitions may slow our future growth. We plan to continue to identify and consummate additional acquisitions to further diversify our businesses and to penetrate or expand important markets. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices. Even if we identify promising acquisition candidates, the timing, price, structure and success of future acquisitions are uncertain. An inability to consummate or integrate attractive acquisitions may reduce our growth rate and our ability to penetrate new markets. 9 Table of Contents If any of our major customers terminates a substantial amount of existing agreements, chooses not to enter into new agreements or elects not to submit additional purchase orders for our products, our business may suffer. Most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. We have a concentration of several primary customers that we rely on for a material amount of these purchase orders. To the extent we have agreements in place with these customers, most of these agreements are either short-term in nature or provide these customers with the ability to terminate the arrangement. Such agreements typically do not provide us with any material recourse in the event of non-renewal or early termination. We will lose business and our revenues may decrease if one of these major customers: · does not submit additional purchase orders; · does not enter into new agreements with us; · elects to reduce or prolong their purchase orders; or · elects to terminate their relationship with us. If we do not effectively manage our business in the face of fluctuations in the size of our organization, our business may be disrupted. We have grown both organically and as a result of acquisitions. We have also contracted as a result of declines in global demand and divestitures. We may significantly reduce or expand our workforce and facilities in response to rapid changes in demand for our products due to prevailing global market conditions. These rapid fluctuations place strains on our resources and systems. If we do not effectively manage our resources and systems, our business may be adversely affected. Uncertainty in demand for our products may result in increased costs of production, an inability to service our customers or higher inventory levels which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have very little visibility into our customers’ future purchasing patterns and are highly dependent on our customers’ forecasts. These forecasts are non-binding and often highly unreliable. Given the fluctuation in growth rates and cyclical demand for our products, as well as our reliance on often imprecise customer forecasts, it is difficult to accurately manage our production schedule, equipment and personnel needs and our raw material and working capital requirements. Our failure to effectively manage these issues may result in: · production delays; · increased costs of production; · excessive inventory levels and reduced financial liquidity; · an inability to make timely deliveries; and · a decrease in profits or cash flows. A decrease in availability of our key raw materials could adversely affect our profit margins. We use several types of raw materials in the manufacturing of our products, including: · base metals such as copper; · ferrite cores; and · plastics and plastic resins. Some of these materials are produced by a limited number of suppliers. We may be unable to obtain these raw materials in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner to meet the demand for our products. The lack of availability or a delay in obtaining any of the raw materials used in our products could adversely affect our manufacturing costs and profit margins. In addition, if the price of our raw materials increases significantly over a short period of time due to increased market demand or shortage of supply, customers may be unwilling to bear the increased price for our products and we may be forced to sell our products containing these materials at lower prices causing a reduction in our profit margins. 10 Table of Contents Costs associated with precious metals and base metals may not be recoverable. Some of Electrical’s raw materials, such as precious metals and certain base metals, are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. Electrical attempts to limit its exposure to fluctuations in the cost of precious materials, including silver, by obtaining the majority of the precious metal in its facilities through leasing or consignment arrangements with suppliers. Electrical then typically purchases the precious metal from its supplier at the current market price on the day after shipment to the customer and passes this cost on to the customer. Electrical attempts to limit its exposure to base metal price fluctuations by attempting to pass through the cost of base metals to customers, typically by indexing the cost of the base metal, so that the cost of the base metal closely relates to the price charged to customers, but Electrical may not always be successful in indexing these costs or fully passing through costs to its customers. Leasing/consignment fee increases are primarily caused by increases in interest rates or volatility in the price of the consigned material. Fees charged by the consignor are driven by interest rates and the market price of the consigned material. The market price of the consigned material is determined by its supply and demand. Consignment fees may increase if interest rates or the price of the consigned material increase. Electrical’s results of operations and liquidity may be negatively impacted if it is unable to: · enter into new leasing or consignment arrangements with similarly favorable terms after its existing agreements terminate; · recover increased leasing or consignment costs through an increase in prices; · pass through higher base metals’ costs to its customers; or · comply with existing leasing or consignment obligations. Competition may result in reduced demand for our products and reduced sales. We frequently encounter strong competition within individual product lines from various competitors throughout the world. We compete principally on the basis of: · product quality and reliability; · global design and manufacturing capabilities; · breadth of product line; · price; · customer service; and · delivery time. Our inability to successfully compete on any or all of the above or other factors may result in reduced sales. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results. We manufacture and sell our products in various regions of the world and export and import these products to and from a large number of countries. Fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively impact our cost of production and sales which, in turn, could decrease our operating results and cash flow. In addition, if the functional currency of our manufacturing costs strengthened compared to the functional currency of our competitors’ manufacturing costs, our products may become more costly than our competitors. Although we engage in limited hedging transactions, including foreign currency exchange contracts which may reduce our transaction and economic exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, these measures may not eliminate or substantially reduce our risk in the future. Our international operations subject us to the risks of unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in other countries. We manufacture and assemble most of our products in locations outside the United States, such as China, and a majority of our revenues are derived from sales to customers outside the United States. Our future operations and earnings may be adversely affected by the risks related to, or any other problems arising from, operating in international locations and markets. 11 Table of Contents Risks inherent in doing business internationally may include: · the inability to repatriate or transfer cash on a timely or efficient basis; · economic and political instability; · expropriation and nationalization; · trade restrictions; · capital and exchange control programs; · transportation delays; · uncertain rules of law; · foreign currency fluctuations; and · unexpected changes in the laws and policies of the United States or of the countries in which we manufacture and sell our products. The majority of our manufacturing occurs in the PRC. Although the PRC has a large and growing economy, political, legal and labor developments entail uncertainties and risks. For example, during the second half of 2009, we began to encounter difficulties in attracting and retaining the level of labor required to meet our customer’s demand. Also, wages have been increasing rapidly over the last several years in southern China. While China has been receptive to foreign investment, its investment policies may not continue indefinitely into the future and future policy changes may adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations in these countries or the costs of such operations. We have benefited in prior years from favorable tax incentives and we operate in countries where we realize favorable income tax treatment relative to the U.S. statutory rate. We have been granted special tax incentives, including tax holidays, in jurisdictions such as the PRC. This favorable situation could change if these countries were to increase rates or discontinue the special tax incentives, or if we discontinue our manufacturing operations in any of these countries and do not replace the operations with operations in other locations with similar tax incentives or policies. Accordingly, in the event of changes in laws and regulations affecting our international operations, we may not be able to continue to recognize or take advantage of similar benefits in the future. Shifting our operations between regions may entail considerable expense, capital and opportunity costs. Within countries in which we operate, particularly China, we sometimes shift our operations from one region to another in order to maximize manufacturing and operational efficiency. We may close one or more additional factories in the future. This could entail significant earnings charges and cash payments to account for severance, asset impairments, write-offs, write-downs, moving expenses, start-up costs and inefficiencies, as well as certain adverse tax consequences including the loss of specialized tax incentives, non-deductible expenses or value-added tax consequences. Liquidity requirements could necessitate movements of existing cash balances which may be subject to restrictions or cause unfavorable tax and earnings consequences. A significant portion of our cash is held offshore by international subsidiaries and may be denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. While we intend to use a significant amount of the cash held overseas to fund our international operations and growth, if we encounter a significant need for liquidity domestically or at a particular location that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings, or other internal or external sources, we may experience unfavorable tax and earnings consequences due to cash transfers. These adverse consequences would occur, for example, if the transfer of cash into the United States is taxed and no offsetting foreign tax credit is available to offset the U.S. tax liability, resulting in lower earnings. In addition, we may be prohibited from transferring cash from a country such as the PRC. Foreign exchange ceilings imposed by local governments and the sometimes lengthy approval processes which foreign governments require for international cash transfers may delay our internal cash transfers from time to time. We have not experienced any significant liquidity restrictions in any country in which we operate and none are presently foreseen. All of our retained earnings are free from legal or contractual restrictions, with the exception of approximately $30.2 million of retained earnings as of December 25, 2009, primarily in the PRC that are restricted in accordance with the PRC Foreign Investment Enterprises Law. This law restricts 10% of our net earnings in the PRC, up to a maximum amount equal to 50% of the total capital we have invested in the PRC. The $30.2 million includes approximately $5.7 million of retained earnings of a majority owned subsidiary and approximately $1.9 million of a discontinued operation. 12 Table of Contents Losing the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees could adversely affect our businesses. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and senior management, many of whom have numerous years of experience and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and maintain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is often intense, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lose the services of these key employees or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our businesses could be adversely affected. On February 22, 2010 we announced that our board of directors has named Daniel M. Moloney our next chief executive officer, replacing James M. Papada, III, who is retiring, pursuant to a plan announced to the board in 2008. Mr. Moloney comes to Technitrol from Motorola, Inc., where he served most recently as Executive Vice President and President of its Home and Network Mobility business, a leading provider of integrated and customized end-to-end media solutions for cable, wireline, and wireless service providers. He played a leading role in expanding the breadth and global presence of this business. Mr. Moloney served nearly 10 years in senior-level capacities at Motorola and, previously, 16 years in managerial positions of increasing responsibility at General Instrument Corporation before its acquisition by Motorola early in 2000. He holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from the University of Michigan and a master of business administration from the University of Chicago. Mr. Moloney is expected to join Technitrol at the end of March 2010. Public health epidemics (such as flu strains or severe acute respiratory syndrome) or natural disasters (such as earthquakes or fires) may disrupt operations in affected regions and affect operating results. We maintain extensive manufacturing operations in the PRC as do many of our customers and suppliers. A sustained interruption of our manufacturing operations, or those of our customers or suppliers, resulting from complications caused by a public health epidemic or natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The unavailability of insurance against certain business and product liability risks may adversely affect our future operating results. As part of our comprehensive risk management program, we purchase insurance coverage against certain business and product liability risks. However, not all risks are insured, and those that are insured differ in covered amounts by type of risk, end market and customer location. If any of our insurance carriers discontinues an insurance policy, significantly reduces available coverage or increases our deductibles and we cannot find another insurance carrier to write comparable coverage at similar costs, or if we are not fully insured for a particular risk in a particular place, then we may be subject to increased costs of uninsured or under-insured losses which may adversely affect our operating results. Also, our components, modules and other products are used in a broad array of representative end products. If our insurance program does not adequately cover liabilities arising from the direct use of our products or as a result of our products being used in our customers’ products, we may be subject to increased costs of uninsured losses which may adversely affect our operating results. Environmental liability and compliance obligations may adversely affect our operations and results. Our manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations as well as internal programs and policies governing: · air emissions; · wastewater discharges; · the storage, use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and chemicals; and employee health and safety. If violations of environmental laws should occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties, fines and remedial actions for contamination discovered at our present or former facilities. Our operations and results could be adversely affected by any material obligations arising from existing laws or new regulations that may be enacted in the future. We may also be held liable for past disposal of hazardous substances generated by our business or businesses we acquire. 13 Table of Contents Our debt levels could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and perception of our financial condition in the financial markets. We were in compliance with the covenants of our amended and restated credit agreement as of December 25, 2009. Outstanding borrowings against this agreement, which allows for a maximum facility of $100.0 million, were $81.0 million at December 25, 2009. In addition to the debt outstanding under our credit agreement, we issued $50.0 million of convertible senior notes during the fourth quarter of 2009. We believe the severe economic and credit crisis that began in late 2008 and continued into 2009 has resulted in these borrowings having a significant adverse affect on our share price. Our share price may continue to be depressed until our leverage improves. Covenants with our lenders require compliance with specific financial ratios that may make it difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms for future acquisitions or other corporate needs. Although we anticipate meeting our covenants in the normal course of operations, our ability to remain in compliance with the covenants may be adversely affected by future events beyond our control. Violating any of these covenants could result in being declared in default, which may result in our lenders electing to declare our outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient liquid assets to repay our credit facilities and other indebtedness. In addition, certain domestic and international subsidiaries have pledged the shares of certain subsidiaries, as well as selected accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment and other assets as collateral. If we default on our obligations, our lenders may take possession of the collateral and may license, sell or otherwise dispose of those related assets in order to satisfy our obligations. Our results may be negatively affected by changing interest rates. We are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates. To mitigate the risk of changing interest rates, we may utilize derivatives or other financial instruments. We do not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on our income or cash flows for the foreseeable future, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not significantly change or that our results would not be negatively affected by such changes. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property through patent laws, other regulations or by contract. As a result, other companies may be able to develop and market similar products which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights and we may incur defense costs and possibly royalty obligations or lose the right to use technology important to our business. From time to time, we receive claims by third parties asserting that our products violate their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management attention from administering our business. A third party asserting infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to our current or future products may materially and adversely affect us by, for example, causing us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or forcing us to incur settlement or litigation costs. Our stock price, like that of many technology companies, has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results and other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. In addition, the market price of our common stock may rise and fall in response to the following factors, or the perception or anticipation of the following factors: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · divestitures of core and non-core businesses; · the gain or loss of a significant customer or order; · the existence of debt levels which significantly exceed our cash levels; · changes in our liquidity, capital resources or financial position; · changes in estimates or forecasts of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; · general market or economic conditions; or · future business prospects. 14 Table of Contents Worldwide recession and disruption of financial markets. The slowdown in economic activity in 2008 and 2009 caused by the ongoing global recession and the reduced availability of liquidity and credit has adversely affected our business. Difficult financial and economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ ability to meet the terms of sale or our suppliers’ ability to fully perform according to their commitments to us. Item 1b Unresolved Staff Comments None 