Item 1a Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Our disclosures and analysis in this report contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations of future events or future financial performance. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often use words such as “anticipate”, “estimate”, “expect”, “project”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe”, and similar terms. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this report may prove to be incorrect. They may be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by risks and uncertainties which are either unknown or not fully known or understood. Accordingly, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in this report. We sometimes provide forecasts of future financial performance. The risks and uncertainties described under “Risk Factors” as well as other risks identified from time to time in other Securities and Exchange Commission reports, registration statements and public announcements, among others, should be considered in evaluating our prospects for the future. We undertake no obligation to release updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following factors represent what we believe are the major risks and uncertainties in our business. They are listed in no particular order. Cyclical changes in the markets we serve could result in a significant decrease in demand for our products and reduce our profitability. Our components are used in various products for the electronic and electrical markets. These markets are cyclical. Generally, the demand for our components reflects the demand for products in the electronic and electrical equipment markets. A contraction in demand would result in a decrease in sales of our products, as our customers: • may cancel many existing orders; • may introduce fewer new products; • may discontinue current products; and • may decrease their inventory levels. A decrease in demand for our products would have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and profitability. Accordingly, we may experience volatility in both our revenues and profits. Reduced prices for our products may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to reduce our costs of production. The average selling prices for our products tend to decrease over their life cycle. In addition, foreign currency movements and the desire to retain market share increase the pressure on our customers to seek lower prices from their suppliers. As a result, our customers are likely to continue to demand lower prices from us. To maintain our margins and remain profitable, we must continue to meet our customers’ design needs while reducing costs through efficient raw material procurement and process and product improvements. Our profit margins will suffer if we are unable to reduce our costs of production as sales prices decline. An inability to adequately respond to changes in technology, applicable standards or customer needs may decrease our sales. Electronics operates in an industry characterized by rapid change caused by the frequent emergence of new technologies and standards. Generally, we expect life cycles for our products in the electronic components industry to be relatively short. This requires us to anticipate and respond rapidly to changes in industry standards and customer needs and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely and cost effective basis. Our engineering and development teams place a priority on working closely with our customers to design innovative products and improve our manufacturing processes. Similarly, at Electrical, the performance and cost of electrical contacts are closely linked to alloys used in their production. Improving performance and reducing costs for our customers requires continuing 9 development of new alloys and products. Our inability to react to changes in technology, standards or customer needs quickly and efficiently may decrease our sales or margins. If our inventories become obsolete, our future performance and operating results will be adversely affected. The life cycles of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Many of Electronics’ products have very short life cycles which are measured in quarters. Products with short life cycles require us to closely manage our production and inventory levels. Inventory may become obsolete because of adverse changes in end market demand. During market slowdowns, this may result in significant charges for inventory write-offs. Our future operating results may be adversely affected by material levels of obsolete or excess inventories. An inability to capitalize on our recent or future acquisitions may adversely affect our business. We have completed several acquisitions in recent years. We continually seek acquisitions to grow our business. We may fail to derive significant benefits from our acquisitions. In addition, if we fail to achieve sufficient financial performance from an acquisition, long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, could become impaired, resulting in our recognition of an impairment loss. The success of any of our acquisitions depends on our ability to: • successfully execute the integration or consolidation of the acquired operations into our existing businesses; • develop or modify the financial reporting and information systems of the acquired entity to ensure overall financial integrity and adequacy of internal control procedures; • identify and take advantage of cost reduction opportunities; and • further penetrate the markets for the product capabilities acquired. Integration of acquisitions may take longer than we expect and may never be achieved to the extent originally anticipated. This could result in lower than anticipated business growth or higher than anticipated costs. In addition, acquisitions may: • cause a disruption in our ongoing business; • distract our managers; • unduly burden our other resources; and • result in an inability to maintain our historical standards, procedures and controls, which may result in non-compliance with external laws and regulations. Integration of acquisitions into the acquiring segment may limit the ability of investors to track the performance of individual acquisitions and to analyze trends in our operating results. Our historical practice has been to rapidly integrate acquisitions into the existing business of the acquiring segment and to report financial performance on the segment level. As a result of this practice, we do not separately track the standalone performance of acquisitions after the date of the transaction. Consequently, investors cannot quantify the financial performance and success of any individual acquisition or the financial performance and success of a particular segment excluding the impact of acquisitions. In addition, our practice of rapidly integrating acquisitions into the financial performance of each segment may limit the ability of investors to analyze any trends in our operating results over time. An inability to identify, consummate or integrate acquisitions may slow our future growth. We plan to continue to identify and consummate additional acquisitions to further diversify our business and to penetrate important markets. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices. Even if we identify promising acquisition candidates, the timing, price, structure and success of future acquisitions are uncertain. An inability to consummate or integrate attractive acquisitions may reduce our growth rate and our ability to penetrate new markets. If our customers terminate their existing agreements, or do not enter into new agreements or submit additional purchase orders for our products, our business will suffer. Most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, as needed by our customers. In addition, to the extent we have agreements in place with our customers, most of these agreements are either short term in nature or provide our 10 customers with the ability to terminate the arrangement with little or no prior notice. Such agreements typically do not provide us with any material recourse in the event of non-renewal or early termination. We will lose business and our revenues will decrease if a significant number of customers: • do not submit additional purchase orders; • do not enter into new agreements with us; or • elect to terminate their relationship with us. If we do not effectively manage our business in the face of fluctuations in the size of our organization, our business may be disrupted. We have grown both organically and as a result of acquisitions. However, we significantly reduce or expand our workforce and facilities in response to rapid changes in demand for our products due to prevailing global market conditions. These rapid fluctuations place strains on our resources and systems. If we do not effectively manage our resources and systems, our businesses may be adversely affected. Uncertainty in demand for our products may result in increased costs of production, an inability to service our customers, or higher inventory levels which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have very little visibility into our customers’ future purchasing patterns and are highly dependent on our customers’ forecasts. These forecasts are non-binding and often highly unreliable. Given the fluctuation in growth rates and cyclical demand for our products, as well as our reliance on often-imprecise customer forecasts, it is difficult to accurately manage our production schedule, equipment and personnel needs and our raw material and working capital requirements. Our failure to effectively manage these issues may result in: • production delays; • increased costs of production; • excessive inventory levels and reduced financial liquidity; • an inability to make timely deliveries; and • a decrease in profits. A decrease in availability of our key raw materials could adversely affect our profit margins. We use several types of raw materials in the manufacturing of our products, including: • precious metals such as silver; • other base metals such as copper and brass; and • ferrite cores. Some of these materials are produced by a limited number of suppliers. We may be unable to obtain these raw materials in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner to meet the demand for our products. The lack of availability or a delay in obtaining any of the raw materials used in our products could adversely affect our manufacturing costs and profit margins. In addition, if the price of our raw materials increases significantly over a short period of time due to increased market demand or shortage of supply, customers may be unwilling to bear the increased price for our products and we may be forced to sell our products containing these materials at prices that reduce our profit margins. Costs associated with precious metals and base metals may not be recoverable. Some of our raw materials, such as precious metals and certain base metals, are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. We attempt to limit our exposure to fluctuations in the cost of precious materials, including silver, by holding the majority of our precious metal inventory through leasing or consignment arrangements with our suppliers. We then typically purchase the precious metal from our supplier at the current market price on the day after shipment to our customer and pass this cost on to our customer. We try to limit our exposure to base metal price fluctuations by attempting to pass through the cost of base metals to our customers, typically by indexing the cost of the base metal, so that our cost of the base metal closely relates to the price we charge our customers, but we may not always be successful in indexing these costs or fully passing through costs to our customers. Leasing/consignment fee increases are primarily caused by increases in interest rates or volatility in the price of the consigned material. Fees charged by the consignor are driven by interest rates and the market price of the consigned 11 material. The market price of the consigned material is determined by the supply of, and the demand for, the material. Consignment fees may increase if interest rates or the price of the consigned material increase. Our results of operations and liquidity will be negatively impacted if: • we are unable to enter into new leasing or consignment arrangements with similarly favorable terms after our existing agreements terminate; • our leasing or consignment fees increase significantly in a short period of time and we are unable to recover these increased costs through higher sale prices; and • we are unable to pass through higher base metals costs to our customers. Competition may result in lower prices for our products and reduced sales. Both Electronics and Electrical frequently encounter strong competition within individual product lines from various competitors throughout the world. We compete principally on the basis of: • product quality and reliability; • global design and manufacturing capabilities; • breadth of product line; • customer service; • price; and • on-time delivery. Our inability to successfully compete on any or all of the above factors may result in reduced sales. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results. We manufacture and sell our products in various regions of the world and export and import these products to and from a large number of countries. Fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively impact our cost of production and sales which, in turn, could decrease our operating results and cash flow. In addition, if the functional currency of our manufacturing costs strengthened compared to the functional currency of our competitors’ manufacturing costs, our products may become more costly than our competitors’. Although we engage in limited hedging transactions, including foreign currency contracts, to reduce our transaction and economic exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, these measures may not eliminate or substantially reduce our risk in the future. Our international operations subject us to the risks of unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in other countries. We manufacture and assemble most of our products in locations outside the United States, including China, Mexico and Tunisia and a majority of our revenues are derived from sales to customers outside the United States. Our future operations and earnings may be adversely affected by the risks related to, or any other problems arising from, operating in international locations and markets. Risks inherent in doing business internationally may include: • the inability to repatriate cash on a timely basis; • economic and political instability; • expropriation and nationalization; • trade restrictions; • capital and exchange control programs; • transportation delays; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • unexpected changes in the laws and policies of the United States or of the countries in which we manufacture and sell our products. Electronics has the majority of its non-automotive manufacturing operations in the PRC. Our presence in the PRC has enabled Electronics to maintain lower manufacturing costs and to adjust our work force to demand levels for our products. Although the PRC has a large and growing economy, the potential economic, political, legal and labor developments entail uncertainties and risks. For example, wages have been increasing over the last several years in the southern coastal provinces. While the PRC has been receptive to foreign investment, we cannot be certain that its current policies will continue indefinitely into the future. In the event of any changes that adversely affect our ability to 12 conduct our operations within the PRC, our businesses may suffer. We also have manufacturing operations in Tunisia and Mexico, which are subject to unique risks, including earthquakes in Tunisia and those associated with Middle Eastern and Mexican geo-political events. We have benefited over recent years from favorable tax treatment as a result of our international operations. We operate in countries where we realize favorable income tax treatment relative to the U.S. statutory rate. We have also been granted special tax incentives commonly known as tax holidays in countries such as the PRC and Tunisia. This favorable situation could change if these countries were to increase rates or discontinue the special tax incentives, or if we discontinue our manufacturing operations in any of these countries and do not replace the operations with operations in other locations with similar tax incentives. For example, the withholding tax rate on dividend payments from most of our PRC subsidiaries is expected to be 5% starting in 2008. In addition, the corporate income tax rate for PRC companies will be 15% or 25% after the applicable holiday and transition period expire, depending on whether the company qualifies as a high-technology company or meets other conditions. Accordingly, in the event of changes in laws and regulations affecting our international operations, we may not be able to continue to take advantage of similar benefits in the future. Shifting our operations between regions may entail considerable expense. In the past we have shifted our operations from one region to another in order to maximize manufacturing and operational efficiency. We may close one or more additional factories in the future. This could entail significant one-time earnings charges to account for severance, long-lived asset impairments, write-offs, write downs and moving expenses, as well as certain adverse tax consequences including the loss of specialized tax incentives or non-deductible expenses. In addition, as we implement transfers of our operations we may experience disruptions, including strikes or other types of labor unrest resulting from layoffs or termination of employees. Liquidity requirements could necessitate movements of existing cash balances which may be subject to restrictions or cause unfavorable tax and earnings consequences. A significant portion of our cash is held offshore by our international subsidiaries and is predominantly denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. While we intend to use a significant amount of the cash held overseas to fund our international operations and growth, if we encounter a significant domestic need for liquidity that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings, or other internal or external sources, we may experience unfavorable tax and earnings consequences if this cash is transferred to the United States. These adverse consequences would occur if the transfer of cash into the United States is taxed and no offsetting foreign tax credit is available to offset the U.S. tax liability, resulting in lower earnings. In addition, we may be prohibited from transferring cash from the PRC. For example, foreign exchange ceilings imposed by local governments and sometimes lengthy approval processes which foreign governments require for international cash transfers may delay our internal cash transfers from time to time. We have not experienced any significant liquidity restrictions in any country in which we operate and none are presently foreseen. With the exception of approximately $25.1 million of retained earnings as of December 28, 2007 in primarily the PRC that are restricted in accordance with the PRC Foreign Investment Enterprises Law, substantially all retained earnings are free from legal or contractual restrictions. This law restricts 10% of our net earnings in the PRC, up to a maximum amount equal to 50% of the total capital we have invested in the PRC. Losing the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and management, many of whom have many years of experience and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and maintain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industries, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lose the services of our executive officers or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our businesses could be adversely affected. Public health epidemics (such as flu strains, or severe acute respiratory syndrome) or other natural disasters (such as earthquakes or fires) may disrupt operations in affected regions and affect operating results. Electronics and, to a lesser extent, Electrical, maintain extensive manufacturing operations in the PRC and other emerging economies, as do many of our customers and suppliers. A sustained interruption of our manufacturing operations, or those of our customers or suppliers, resulting from complications caused by a public health epidemic or other natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 13 The unavailability of insurance against certain business risks may adversely affect our future operating results. As part of our comprehensive risk management program, we purchase insurance coverage against certain business risks. If any of our insurance carriers discontinues an insurance policy or significantly reduces available coverage or increases in the deductibles and we cannot find another insurance carrier to write comparable coverage at similar costs, we may be subject to increased costs of uninsured losses which may adversely affect our operating results. Environmental liability and compliance obligations may affect our operations and results. Our manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations as well as internal programs and policies governing: • air emissions; • wastewater discharges; • the storage, use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and chemicals; and • employee health and safety. If violations of environmental laws should occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties, fines and remedial actions for contamination discovered at our present or former facilities. Our operations and results could be adversely affected by any material obligations arising from existing laws or new regulations that may be enacted in the future. We may also be held liable for past disposal of hazardous substances generated by our business or businesses we acquire. An increase in our debt levels could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and perception of our financial condition in the financial markets. We entered into an agreement on January 8, 2008 with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. to arrange and syndicate a $200.0 million senior term loan facility and a $300.0 million senior revolving credit facility. The principal purpose of this agreement, which is expected to close at the end of February 2008, is to fund the acquisition of Sonion A/S. Borrowing against this agreement will increase our outstanding debt. Because this financing will decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage criteria, the marketplace could react negatively to our new debt levels, which in turn could affect our share price. Covenants with our lenders under this agreement, that require our compliance with specific financial ratios, may also make it difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms for future acquisitions and other corporate needs. Although at present we anticipate no difficulty in meeting such covenants in the normal course of operations, our ability to remain in compliance with the covenants may be adversely affected by future events beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants, than we may be declared to be in default. This may result in our lenders electing to declare our outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and other indebtedness. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7. Our results may be negatively affected by changing interest rates. We are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates. We do not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on income or cash flows in the future, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not significantly change. To address the risk of changing interest rates, we may utilize derivatives or other financial instruments. Item 1b Unresolved Staff Comments None 14 Item 