Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report, including certain cautionary and forward-looking statements, you should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating an investment in SunLink: Consolidated Operations Risks SunLink’s growth strategy depends in part on making successful acquisitions, via mergers, or otherwise, and on successfully integrating our recent acquisition of our pharmacy operations, which may expose SunLink to new liabilities. As part of our growth strategy, SunLink will seek further growth through acquisitions, via mergers or otherwise, of rural and exurban healthcare businesses. We have sought to acquire and have acquired rural and exurban community hospitals, nursing homes and home health agencies, as well as other rural and exurban healthcare businesses. We may be subject to a variety of risks arising out of the acquisition of our new pharmacy business or other rural and exurban healthcare businesses. We intend, to the extent possible, to integrate the operations of acquired assets and entities with our existing organizational structure; although our pharmacy operations, like our community hospitals, will be conducted in one or more separate subsidiaries. In light of the diverse nature of our pharmacy operations and depending on the nature of other acquired entity or operations, integration of acquired operations into our present operations may present substantial difficulties. Even where material difficulties are not anticipated, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter such difficulties in integrating acquired operations with our operations, which may result in a delay or the failure to achieve anticipated synergies, increased costs and failures to achieve increases in earnings or cost savings. The difficulties of combining the operations of Carmichael or other acquired companies may include, among other things: • unidentified liabilities of Carmichael or of other companies SunLink may acquire or merge with; • the potential failure to achieve economies of scale or synergies sought in our new pharmacy business or in other new rural or exurban healthcare businesses; • the possible inability to successfully integrate and manage acquired operations and personnel especially where such business is other than a community hospital or nursing home; • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and an acquired entity; • the inadequacy of internal controls at an acquired entity, including now known inadequacies at Carmichael; • the inability to expand sales and marketing operations; • the inability to retain existing customers and attract new customers; • the loss of or inability to attract new key employees; • the inability to achieve consolidation of corporate and administrative operations and infrastructures; 32 Index to Financial Statements • the inability to achieve integration and management of the technologies and systems of the acquired entity, including the consolidation and integration of computer information systems including multiple systems at Carmichael; • the failure to identify and eliminate redundant and underperforming operations and assets; • unexpected costs associated with the termination of assumed contractual obligations and the timing thereof; • diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • the possibility of unexpected tax costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of the operations; • the possible need and unexpected cost to modify internal controls over financial reporting in order to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated there under; and • loss of customer goodwill. For these reasons, we may fail to successfully complete the integration of Carmichael or any other acquired entity, establish adequate internal controls at Carmichael or other acquired entities, or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Carmichael or any other acquired entity. Actual cost savings and synergies which may be achieved from Carmichael or any other acquired entity may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate. Other acquisition related risks include risks associated with higher costs or unexpected difficulties or problems with acquired assets, outdated, incompatible or a multiplicity of technologies, labor difficulties, or an inability to realize anticipated synergies and efficiencies. Whether within anticipated timeframes or at all, one or more of such acquisition-related risks, if realized, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or operations. Acquired businesses may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. Although SunLink has policies which require acquired operations to implement SunLink compliance standards, and generally will seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering these matters, SunLink may become liable for past activities of acquired businesses. Additional debt for significant capital investments may be required to achieve SunLink’s operational and growth plan, the inability to access capital may affect SunLink’s competitive position, reduce earnings, and negatively affect the value of SunLink common stock. SunLink’s growth plans require significant capital investments. Significant capital investments are required for on-going and planned capital improvements at existing hospitals and may be required in connection with future capital projects either in connection with existing properties or future acquired properties. SunLink’s ability to make capital investments depends on numerous factors such as the availability of funds from operations and its credit facility and access to additional debt and equity financing. No assurance can be given that the necessary funds will be available. Moreover, incurrence of additional debt financing, if available, may involve additional restrictive covenants that could negatively affect SunLink’s ability to operate its business in the desired manner, and raising additional equity may be dilutive to shareholders. The failure to obtain funds necessary for the realization of SunLink’s growth plans could prevent SunLink from realizing its growth strategy and, in particular, could force SunLink to forego acquisition opportunities that may arise in the future. This could, in turn, have a negative impact on SunLink’s competitive position. In order to make future acquisitions, SunLink may be required to incur or assume additional indebtedness. SunLink may not be able to obtain financing, if necessary, for any acquisitions that it might desire to make or it might be required to borrow at higher rates and on less favorable terms than its competitors. 33 Index to Financial Statements State laws may impair SunLink’s ability to acquire non-for-profit hospitals and increase their cost. Many states have enacted or are considering enacting laws affecting sales, leases or other transactions in which control of not-for-profit hospitals is acquired by for-profit corporations. These laws, in general, include provisions relating to state attorney general approval, advance notification and community involvement. In addition, state attorneys general in states without specific legislation governing these transactions may exercise authority based upon charitable trust and other existing law. The increased legal and regulatory review of transactions involving the change of control of not-for-profit entities may increase the acquisition costs of, or limit SunLink’s ability to acquire, not-for-profit hospitals. SunLink’s revenues are heavily concentrated in Georgia which makes SunLink particularly sensitive to economic and other changes in the state of Georgia. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, our three Georgia hospitals generated approximately 44% of consolidated gross revenues for the year. Accordingly, any change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in the state of Georgia could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of SunLink. SunLink depends heavily on its management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of SunLink’s key senior management personnel could weaken SunLink’s management team. SunLink has been, and will continue to be, dependent upon the services and management experience of its executive officers. If any of SunLink’s executive officers were to resign their positions or otherwise be unable to serve, SunLink’s management could be weakened and operating results could be adversely affected; however, to our knowledge, no key executive personnel intend to retire or terminate their employment with SunLink in the near future. SunLink conducts business in a heavily regulated industry; changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce revenue and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • licensure; • conduct of operations; • ownership of facilities; • addition of facilities and services; • confidentiality, maintenance, and security issues associated with medical records; • billing for services; and • prices for services. These laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations, including in particular, Medicare and Medicaid anti-fraud and abuse amendments, codified in Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act and known as the “anti-kickback statute.” This law prohibits providers and others from soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any remuneration with the intent to generate referrals of orders for services or items reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, and other Federal healthcare programs. As authorized by Congress, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, has issued regulations which describe some of the conduct and business relationships immune from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. The fact that a given business arrangement does not fall within one of these “safe 34 Index to Financial Statements harbor” provisions does not render the arrangement illegal. However, business arrangements of healthcare service providers that fail to satisfy the applicable safe harbor criteria risk increased scrutiny by enforcement authorities. We have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our hospitals. We have contracts with physicians providing services under a variety of financial arrangements such as employment contracts and professional service agreements. We also provide financial incentives, including loans and minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into the communities served by our hospitals. HIPAA broadened the scope of the fraud and abuse laws to include all healthcare services, whether or not they are reimbursed under a Federal program. In addition, provisions of the Social Security Act, known as the Stark Act, also prohibit physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to providers of a broad range of designated health services in which the physicians or their immediate family members have an ownership interest or certain other financial arrangements. In addition, SunLink’s facilities will continue to remain subject to any state laws that are more restrictive than the regulations issued under HIPAA, which vary by state and could impose additional penalties. In recent years, both Federal and state government agencies have announced plans for or implemented heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing healthcare laws could assert that SunLink or any of the transactions in which the Company or its subsidiaries or their predecessors is or was involved, are in violation of these laws. It is also possible that these laws ultimately could be interpreted by the courts in a manner that is different from the interpretations made by the Company or others. A determination that either SunLink or its subsidiaries or their predecessors is or was involved in a transaction that violated these laws, or the public announcement that SunLink or its subsidiaries or their predecessors is being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on SunLink’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and SunLink’s business reputation could suffer significantly. The laws, rules, and regulations described above are complex and subject to interpretation. In the event of a determination that we are in violation of any of these laws, rules or regulations, or if further changes in the regulatory framework occur, our results of operations could be significantly harmed. SunLink is and in the future could be subject to claims related to discontinued operations, hospitals sold by our HealthMont subsidiary prior to its acquisition, and claims related to the disposition of our former Mountainside Medical Center. Over the past 20 years, SunLink has discontinued operations carried on by its former industrial and life sciences and engineering segments, and U.K. child safety segments, leisure marine, and housewares segments and its former Mountainside Medical Center (by virtue of the sale of such facility whose original facility was one of our original hospitals). Prior to our acquisition of our HealthMont subsidiaries, HealthMont had sold two hospitals and it also disposed of one additional hospital as a condition to our acquisition of HealthMont. SunLink’s reserves relating to discontinued operations represent management’s best estimate of possible liability for property, product liability, and other claims for which SunLink may incur liability. These estimates are based on management’s judgments using currently available information as well as, in certain instances, consultation with SunLink’s insurance carriers and legal counsel. SunLink currently does not purchase insurance policies to reduce product liability or other discontinued operations exposures and does not anticipate it will purchase such insurance in the future. While estimates have been based on the evaluation of available information, it is not possible to predict with certainty the ultimate outcome of many contingencies relating to discontinued operations. Furthermore, future events or evaluations could cause us to adjust existing reserves in connection with our operations. SunLink intends to adjust our estimates of required reserves from time to time as additional information is developed and evaluated. However, SunLink believes that the final resolution of known contingencies will not have a material adverse impact on its financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. 35 Index to Financial Statements SunLink is subject to potential claims for professional liability, including claims based on the acts or omissions of third parties, which claims may not be covered by insurance. SunLink is subject to potential claims for professional liability (medical malpractice), both in connection with our current operations, as well as acquired operations. To cover these claims, we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance in amounts that we believe are sufficient for our operations, although some claims may exceed the scope or amount of the coverage in effect. The assertion of a significant number of claims, either within our self-insured retention (deductible) or individually or in the aggregate in excess of available insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Premiums for professional liability insurance have historically been volatile and we can not assure you that professional liability insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The operations of our hospitals also depend on the professional services of physicians and other trained healthcare providers and technicians in the conduct of their respective operations, including independent laboratories and physicians rendering diagnostic and medical services. There can be no assurance that any legal action stemming from the act or omission of a third party provider of healthcare services, would not be brought against one of our hospitals or SunLink, resulting in significant legal expenses in order to defend against such legal action or to obtain a financial contribution from the third-party whose acts or omissions occasioned the legal action. Risks Related to Our Healthcare Facility Operations SunLink’s success depends on its ability to maintain good relationships with the physicians at its hospitals and, if SunLink is unable to successfully maintain good relationships with physicians, admissions and outpatient revenues at SunLink hospitals may decrease and SunLink’s operating performance could decline. Because physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions and outpatient services, SunLink’s success is, in part, dependent upon the number and quality of physicians on the medical staffs of its hospitals, the admissions and referrals practices of the physicians at our hospitals, and our ability to maintain good relations with our physicians. Many physicians at SunLink hospitals are not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets that SunLink serves, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to SunLink’s hospitals. If SunLink is unable to successfully maintain good relationships with physicians, admissions at SunLink hospitals may decrease and SunLink’s operating performance could decline. SunLink depends heavily on its healthcare facility management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of SunLink’s key local management personnel could weaken SunLink’s management team and its ability to deliver healthcare services. SunLink’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain managers at its hospitals and related health care facilities, on the ability of hospital-based officers and key employees to manage growth successfully, and on their ability to attract and retain skilled employees. SunLink has not had any material difficulties in attracting healthcare facility management; however, if SunLink is unable to attract and retain effective local management, the operating performance of our facilities could decline. SunLink’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals and a shortage of qualified healthcare professionals in certain markets could weaken our ability to deliver healthcare services. In addition to the physicians and management personnel whom SunLink employs, SunLink’s operations are dependent on the efforts, ability, and experience of other healthcare professionals, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. Nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians and other healthcare professionals are generally employees of each individual SunLink hospital. SunLink’s success has been, and will continue to be, influenced 36 Index to Financial Statements by its ability to attract and retain these skilled employees. A shortage of healthcare professionals in certain markets, the loss of some or all of its key employees or the inability to attract or retain sufficient numbers of qualified healthcare professionals could cause SunLink’s operating performance to decline. A significant portion of SunLink’s revenue is dependent on Medicare and Medicaid payments, and possible reductions in Medicare or Medicaid payments or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursements may reduce our revenues. A significant portion of SunLink’s revenues are derived from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. SunLink derived approximately 79% of its patient days and 55% of its net patient revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs for the year ended June 30, 2009. Previous legislative changes have resulted in, and future legislative changes may result in, limitations on and reduced levels of payment and reimbursement for a substantial portion of hospital procedures and costs. Future healthcare legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of governmental healthcare programs may have a material adverse effect on SunLink’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Revenue and profitability of our healthcare facility operations, especially our community hospital operations, may be constrained by future cost containment initiatives undertaken by purchasers of healthcare services if SunLink is unable to contain costs. Our community hospital operations derived approximately 45% of its net patient revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 from private payors and other non-governmental sources who contributed approximately 20% of SunLink’s patient days. Our hospitals have been affected by the increasing number of initiatives undertaken during the past several years by all major purchasers of healthcare, including (in addition to Federal and state governments) insurance companies and employers, to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare expenditures in order to contain healthcare costs. Initiatives such as managed care organizations offering prepaid and discounted medical services packages have adversely affected hospital revenue growth throughout the country and such packages represent an increasing portion of SunLink’s admissions and outpatient revenues and have resulted in reduced revenue growth at our hospitals. In addition, private payers increasingly are attempting to control healthcare costs through direct contracting with hospitals to provide services on a discounted basis, increased utilization review and greater enrollment in managed care programs such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, referred to as PPOs. If we are unable to contain costs, especially in our hospital operations, through increased operational efficiencies and the trend toward declining reimbursements and payments continues, the results of healthcare facility segment operations and cash flow will be adversely affected and the results of our consolidated operations and our consolidated cash flow similarly likely would be adversely affected. Our healthcare facilities, especially our community hospitals, face intense competition from other hospitals and healthcare providers which directly affect our segment and consolidated revenues and profitability. Although each of our hospitals operates in communities where they are currently the only general, acute care hospital, they do face competition from other hospitals, including larger tertiary care centers. Although these competing hospitals may be as far as 30 to 50 miles away, patients in these markets may migrate to these competing facilities as a result of local physician referrals, managed care plan incentives or personal choice. The healthcare business is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Each of our hospitals operates in geographic areas where they compete with at least one other hospital that provides services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. Some of these competing facilities offer services, including extensive medical research and medical education 37 Index to Financial Statements programs, which are not offered by SunLink’s facilities. Some of the competing hospitals are owned or operated by tax-supported governmental bodies or by private not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions which can finance capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis and are exempt from sales, property, and income taxes. In some of these markets, SunLink’s hospitals also face competition from other for-profit hospital companies, some of which have substantially greater resources, as well as other providers such as outpatient surgery and diagnostic centers. The intense competition from other hospitals and other healthcare providers directly affects the market share of our community hospitals, as well as their and our revenues and profitability. Changes in market demographics may increase competition for certain of our community hospitals. Some of our hospitals are located in exurban areas which are becoming more suburban or metropolitan. Such markets are likely to attract additional competitors, including satellite operations of tertiary hospitals. We cannot be assured that we will have the financial resources to fund capital improvements to our existing facilities, which may face additional competition or that even if financial resources are available to us, projected operating results will justify such expenditures. An inability to fund or the infeasibility of funding capital improvements could directly or indirectly have an adverse impact on hospital revenues through lower patient utilization, increased difficulty in physician recruitment and otherwise as a result of increased competition. SunLink’s hospitals are and our other healthcare facilities may be subject to, and depend on, certificate of need laws which could affect their ability to operate profitably. All states in which SunLink currently operates hospitals and nursing homes have laws affecting acute care hospital facilities, nursing homes, ambulatory surgery centers and the provision of various services; such laws are known as “certificate of need” laws. Under such laws, prior state approval is required for the acquisition of major medical equipment or the purchase, lease, construction, expansion, sale or closure of covered healthcare facilities, based on a determination of need for additional or expanded facilities or services. The required approval is known generally as a certificate of need or CON. A CON may be required for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in hospital and nursing home bed capacity or services, and certain other matters. The failure to obtain any required CON may impair SunLink’s ability to operate profitably. In addition, the elimination or modification of CON laws in states in which SunLink operates or in the future may own hospitals and other covered healthcare facilities could subject our hospitals to greater competition making it more difficult to operate profitably. Risk Relating to our Specialty Pharmacy Business Our specialty pharmacy business may be adversely affected by changes in government reimbursement regulations and payment levels. For the year ended June 30, 2009, our specialty pharmacy operations derived approximately 85% of their net revenues from government payors, principally Medicare and Medicaid. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 exempted rural providers of home care related services from the competitive acquisition program to which urban providers are subject. We cannot assure you that the ASP reimbursement methodology will not be extended to the provision of all specialty pharmaceuticals or to the specialty pharmaceuticals most often sold by our specialty pharmacy operations or that we will continue to be able to operate our specialty pharmacy operations profitably at either existing or at lower reimbursement rates. Likewise, we cannot assure you that the Part B CAP program will not be extended to rural or exurban areas in general or to the areas in which we operate, or may seek to operate, in particular or that we would be able to meet the qualifications to become a Part B CAP vendor either now or at any time in the future. 38 Index to Financial Statements Our specialty pharmacy business could be harmed by further changes in government purchasing methodologies and reimbursement rates for Medicare or Medicaid. In addition to the impact of MMA implemented or inspired changes, in order to deal with budget shortfalls, some states are attempting to create state administered prescription drug discount plans, to limit the number of prescriptions per person that are covered, and to raise Medicaid co-pays and deductibles, and are proposing more restrictive formularies and reductions in pharmacy reimbursement rates. Any reductions in amounts reimbursable by other government programs for our services or changes in regulations governing such reimbursements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our durable medical equipment service line may be adversely affected by changes in government reimbursement regulations and payment levels, especially if our durable medical equipment service line becomes subject to competitive bidding procedures. Although we are currently exempted under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 from the competitive acquisition program for DMEPOS, we cannot be sure such exemption will continue to be available in the future. Loss of such exemption could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. The operations of our specialty pharmacy services depend on a continuous supply of key products. Any shortages of key products could adversely affect our business. Many of the biopharmaceutical products distributed by our specialty pharmacy operations are manufactured with ingredients that are susceptible to supply shortages. In addition, the manufacturers of these products may not have adequate manufacturing capability to meet rising demand. If any products we distribute are in short supply for long periods of time, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The operations of our specialty pharmacy are highly dependent on relationships with key suppliers and the loss of any of such key suppliers could adversely affect our business. Any termination of, or adverse change in, our relationships with our key suppliers, or the loss of supply of one of our key products for any other reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The largest supplier for our specialty pharmacy operations accounted for approximately 57% of Carmichael’s total net sales in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Our specialty pharmacy operations have a single source of supply for many of our key products, including one product which accounted for approximately 28% of Carmichael’s total net sales in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. In addition, we have few long-term contracts with our suppliers. Our arrangements with most of our suppliers may be canceled by either party, without cause, on minimal notice. Many of these arrangements are not governed by written agreements. The loss of one or more of our larger institutional pharmacy customers could hurt our business by reducing the revenues and profitability of our specialty pharmacy operations. As is customary in the institutional pharmacy industry, our specialty pharmacy operations generally do not have long-term contracts with our institutional pharmacy customers. Significant declines in the level of purchases by one or more of our larger institutional pharmacy customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our failure to maintain eligibility as a Medicare and Medicaid supplier could materially adversely affect our competitive position. Likewise, our failure to maintain and expand relationships with private payors, who can effectively determine the pharmacy source for their members, could materially adversely affect our competitive position. 39 Index to Financial Statements Changes in average wholesale prices could reduce our pricing and margins. Many government payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, have paid, or continue to pay, our specialty pharmacy operations directly or indirectly at a percentage off a drug’s average wholesale price, or AWP. We also have contracted with some private payors to sell drugs at AWP or at a percentage off AWP. AWP for most drugs is compiled and published by several private companies, including First DataBank, Inc. Several states have filed lawsuits against pharmaceutical manufacturers for allegedly inflating reported AWP for prescription drugs. In addition, class action lawsuits have been brought by consumers against pharmaceutical manufacturers alleging overstatement of AWP. We are not responsible for such calculations, reports or payments; however, there can be no assurance that the ability of our specialty pharmacy operations to negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers will not be materially adversely affected by such investigations or lawsuits. The federal government also has entered into settlement agreements with several drug manufacturers relating to the calculation and reporting of AWP pursuant to which the drug manufacturers, among other things, have agreed to report new pricing information, the “average sales price”, to government healthcare programs. The average sales price is calculated differently than AWP. We face numerous competitors and potential competitors in our specialty pharmacy operations, many of whom are significantly larger and who have significantly greater financial resources. Although we believe market penetration by large national companies into our existing market for our specialty pharmacy operations has not been substantial, we cannot be assured that one of more such companies or other healthcare companies will not seek to compete or intensify their level of competition in the rural and exurban areas in which we conduct or may seek to conduct one or more of the components of our specialty pharmacy operations. The operations of our specialty pharmacy business may be adversely affected by industry trends in managed care contracting and consolidation. A growing number of health plans are contracting with a single provider of specialty pharmacy services. Likewise, manufacturers may not be eager to contract with regional providers of specialty pharmacy services. If we are unable to obtain managed care contracts in the areas in which we provide specialty pharmacy services or are unable to obtain specialty pharmacy products at reasonable costs or at all, our business could be adversely affected. The specialty pharmacy market may grow slower than expected which could adversely affect our revenues. According to an analysis of IMS Health data, spending in the U.S. in 2006 for specialty drugs was $54,000,000 or 20% of overall prescription drug spending for that year. Sales of biotech products alone—a subset of specialty pharmaceuticals—are estimated by the same consultant to have reached $40,000,000 in 2006. More conservative estimates place the size of the specialty pharmacy market between $18,000,000 and $35,000,000. Such estimates place the administrative spending for this segment at in excess of 10% of the pure cost of drug and care. A healthcare consulting firm has estimated that 95% of the 101 unique biopharmaceuticals in late-stage development in the U.S. are infusible and injectables and that there are over 800 specialty medications in phase one, phase two or phase three development. As a result, the percentage of spending for specialty pharmaceuticals may increase to more than $100,000,000 by 2010 and grow to represent more than 25 percent of total drug spending. We cannot predict whether the rate of actual future growth in product availability and spending will match projections, the extent to which patient demand or spending for specialty drug services in rural or exurban areas will match national averages or whether government payors will provide reimbursement for new products under Medicare or Medicare on a timely basis or at all or at what rates. Adverse developments in any of these areas could have an adverse impact on our pharmacy business. 40 Index to Financial Statements Other Risks SunLink may issue additional equity in the future which could dilute the value of shares of existing shareholders. SunLink’s working capital is limited to cash generated from operations and borrowings available under our $47,000 credit facility (of which approximately $32,000 of the term loan and $3,400 of the revolver were outstanding and approximately $6,400 was available to borrow at June 30, 2009) and our additional debt capacity is limited. Management and the board of directors of SunLink periodically have discussed the need to raise equity in the future and periodically have considered certain transactions which might be available to SunLink to raise equity. However, SunLink has not engaged any underwriter or placement agent with respect to any potential equity offering, nor has SunLink’s management made any specific proposal or recommendation to the SunLink board of directors with respect to the type of securities to be offered or the price at which any securities might be offered. Such transactions might include, among others, the sale of common shares to outsiders or the offer to existing shareholders of the right to acquire additional shares. While the board of directors has not decided to effect any equity transaction at this time, it may do so in the future. Any equity transaction could result in dilution in the value of existing shares. Forward-looking statements in this annual report may prove inaccurate. This document contains forward-looking statements about SunLink that are not historical facts but, rather, are statements about future expectations. Forward-looking statements in this document are based on management’s current views and assumptions and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to be materially different from those projected. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Important factors, some of which are beyond the control of SunLink, could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include those described above under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report under “Forward-Looking Statements.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 41 Index to Financial Statements 