Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report, including certain cautionary and forward-looking statements, you should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating an investment in SunLink: 30 Table of Contents Consolidated Operations Risks If our operating results continue to decline, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our liquidity needs. We rely upon cash on hand, cash from operations and a subsidiary based limited revolving loan facility to fund our cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, commitments and payments of principal and interest on borrowings. Our ability to generate cash from operations has been negatively impacted by reduced Federal and state reimbursements, uncollectible self-pay net revenues of our Healthcare Facilities Segment, increased salary expenses for employed physicians and decreased patient volume at our facilities as a result of economic conditions in the locations we serve as well as decreased sales volume and earning experienced by our Specialty Pharmacy Segment. We expect that these factors will continue to have a negative impact on our business for the foreseeable future. Further deterioration would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. SunLink may require additional debt or equity capital in order to make significant capital investments or expand our operations and the inability to make significant capital investments or expand our operations may negatively affect SunLink’s competitive position, reduce earnings, and negatively affect our results of operations. SunLink’s operations strategy requires significant capital investments. Significant capital investments are required for on-going and planned capital improvements at existing hospitals and may be required in connection with future capital projects either in connection with existing properties or future acquired properties. SunLink’s ability to make capital investments depends on numerous factors such as the availability of funds from operations and access to additional debt and equity financing. No assurance can be given that the necessary funds will be available. Moreover, incurrence of additional debt financing, if available, may involve additional restrictive covenants that could negatively affect SunLink’s ability to operate its business in the desired manner, and raising additional equity likely would be dilutive to shareholders. The failure to obtain funds necessary for the realization of SunLink’s operating strategy could impair SunLink’s existing operations and could force SunLink to forego opportunities that may arise in the future. This could, in turn, have a negative impact on the competitive position of our operating subsidiaries. SunLink’s revenues are more heavily concentrated in the State of Georgia which makes SunLink particularly sensitive to economic and other changes in Georgia. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, our two Georgia hospitals generated approximately 52% of consolidated gross revenues for the year. Accordingly, any adverse change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in the State of Georgia could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of SunLink. SunLink depends heavily on its management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of SunLink’s key senior management personnel could weaken SunLink’s management team. SunLink has been, and will continue to be, dependent upon the services and management experience of its executive officers. If any of SunLink’s executive officers were to resign their positions or otherwise be unable to serve, SunLink’s management could be weakened. SunLink conducts business in a heavily regulated industry; changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce revenue and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • licensure; • conduct of operations including patient referrals, physician recruiting practices, cost reporting and billing practices; 31 Table of Contents • ownership, condition and operation of facilities; • addition of facilities and services; • confidentiality, maintenance, and security issues associated with medical records; • billing for services; and • prices for services. These laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations, including in particular, Medicare and Medicaid anti-fraud and abuse amendments, codified in Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act and known as the “anti-kickback statute.” This law prohibits providers and others from soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any remuneration with the intent to generate referrals of orders for services or items reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal healthcare programs. HHS regulations describe some of the conduct and business relationships immune from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. The fact that a given business arrangement does not fall within one of these “safe harbor” provisions does not render the arrangement illegal. However, business arrangements of healthcare service providers that fail to satisfy the applicable safe harbor criteria risk increased scrutiny by enforcement authorities. We have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our subsidiaries’ hospitals. We have contracts with physicians providing services under a variety of financial arrangements such as employment contracts and professional service agreements. We also provide financial incentives, including loans and minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into the communities served by our subsidiaries’ hospitals. HIPAA broadened the scope of the fraud and abuse laws to include all healthcare services, whether or not they are reimbursed under a federal program. In addition, provisions of the Social Security Act, known as the Stark Act, also prohibit physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to providers of a broad range of designated health services in which the physicians or their immediate family members have an ownership interest or certain other financial arrangements. In addition, SunLink’s facilities will continue to remain subject to any state laws that are more restrictive than the regulations issued under HIPAA, which vary by state and could impose additional penalties. In recent years, both federal and state government agencies have announced plans for or implemented heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing healthcare laws could assert that SunLink or any of the transactions in which the Company or its subsidiaries or their predecessors is or was involved, are in violation of these laws. It is also possible that these laws ultimately could be interpreted by the courts in a manner that is different from the interpretations made by the Company or others. A determination that either SunLink or its subsidiaries or their predecessors is or was involved in a transaction that violated these laws, or the public announcement that SunLink or its subsidiaries or their predecessors is being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on SunLink’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and SunLink’s business reputation could suffer significantly. The laws, rules, and regulations described above are complex and subject to interpretation. In the event of a determination that we are in violation of any of these laws, rules or regulations, or if further changes in the regulatory framework occur, our results of operations could be significantly harmed. SunLink is and in the future could be subject to claims related to discontinued operations, including discontinued healthcare operations. 32 Table of Contents SunLink has discontinued operations carried on by its former life sciences and engineering segment and certain of our healthcare operations. SunLink currently does not purchase insurance policies to reduce discontinued operations exposures and does not anticipate it will purchase such insurance in the future. Based upon an evaluation of information currently available and consultation with legal counsel, management has not reserved any amounts for contingencies related to the discontinued operations. The industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward “value-based” purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large commercial payors currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payors do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. The ACA contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing. Effective July 1, 2011, the ACA prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hospital acquired conditions (“HACs”). An HAC is a condition that is acquired by a patient while admitted as an inpatient at a hospital, such as a surgical site infection. Beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, hospitals that fall into the top 25% of national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total Medicare payments. Hospitals with excessive readmissions for conditions designated by HHS will receive reduced payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excessive readmission standard. The ACA also requires HHS to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services. The Affordable Care Act requires HHS to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in federal fiscal year 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and subsequent years. HHS will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by HHS. HHS will determine the amount each of our subsidiaries’ hospital that meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars created by these payment reductions. We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. The lingering effects of the economic recession could adversely affect our cash flows, financial position, or results of operations. The United States economy recently experienced a major economic recession, the economy remains relatively weak, unemployment levels remain high, and there is a substantial risk that the economy could lapse back into recession. Much healthcare spending is discretionary and can be significantly impacted by economic downturns. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals. In addition, employers may impose or patients may select a high-deductible insurance plan or no insurance at all, which increases a hospital’s dependence on self-pay revenue. Moreover, a greater number of uninsured patients may seek care in our emergency rooms. We are unable to quantify the specific impact of recent or continued adverse economic conditions on our business; however we believe that the lingering effects of the economic recession have had an adverse impact on our operations. Such impact can be expected to continue to affect not only the healthcare decisions of our 33 Table of Contents patients and potential patients but could also have an adverse impact on the solvency of certain managed care providers and other counterparties to transactions with us. Our subsidiaries are subject to potential claims for professional liability, including claims based on the acts or omissions of third parties, which claims may not be covered by insurance. Our subsidiaries are subject to potential claims for professional liability (medical malpractice) in connection with current operations, as well as potentially acquired or discontinued operations. To cover such claims, professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance is maintained in amounts believed to be sufficient for operations, although some claims may exceed the scope or amount of the coverage in effect. The assertion of a significant number of claims, either within a self-insured retention (deductible) or individually or in the aggregate in excess of available insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Premiums for professional liability insurance have historically been volatile and we cannot assure you that professional liability insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The operations of hospitals also depend on the professional services of physicians and other trained healthcare providers and technicians in the conduct of their respective operations, including independent laboratories and physicians rendering diagnostic and medical services. There can be no assurance that any legal action stemming from the act or omission of a third party provider of healthcare services, would not be brought against one of our subsidiaries’ hospitals or SunLink, resulting in significant legal expenses in order to defend against such legal action or to obtain a financial contribution from the third-party whose acts or omissions occasioned the legal action. Risks Related to Our Healthcare Facility Operations SunLink’s success depends on its hospital subsidiaries’ ability to maintain good relationships with the physicians and, if a hospital is unable to successfully maintain good relationships with physicians, admissions and outpatient revenues may decrease and operating performance could decline. Because physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions and outpatient services, a hospitals success is, in part, dependent upon the number and quality of physicians on the medical staffs, the admissions and referrals practices of the physicians at our subsidiaries’ hospitals, and the ability to maintain good relations with physicians. Many physicians are not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals. If one or more of the hospitals operated by our subsidiaries is unable to successfully maintain good relationships with physicians, admissions may decrease and operating performance could decline. SunLink depends heavily on its subsidiaries’ healthcare facility management personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of SunLink’s key local management personnel could weaken SunLink’s management team and its ability to deliver healthcare services. The success of our hospital subsidiaries depends on their ability to attract and retain managers and related health care employees and on the ability of hospital-based officers and key employees to manage growth successfully. SunLink’s subsidiaries have not had any material difficulties in attracting healthcare facility management; however, if a hospital is unable to attract and retain affective local management, the operating performance of that facility could decline. SunLink’s success depends on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals. A shortage of qualified healthcare professionals in certain markets could weaken the ability of our subsidiaries to deliver healthcare services. In addition to the physicians and management personnel whom each subsidiary’s hospital employs, hospital operations are dependent on the efforts, ability, and experience of other healthcare professionals, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. Nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians and other healthcare professionals are 34 Table of Contents generally employees of an individual subsidiaries’ hospital. Each subsidiary’s hospital’s success has been, and will continue to be, influenced by its ability to attract and retain these skilled employees. A shortage of healthcare professionals in certain markets, the loss of some or all of its key employees or the inability to attract or retain sufficient numbers of qualified healthcare professionals could cause a hospital’s operating performance to decline. A significant portion of SunLink’s revenue is dependent on Medicare and Medicaid payments to its subsidiaries and possible reductions in Medicare or Medicaid payments or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursements may reduce our revenues. A significant portion of SunLink’s consolidated revenues are derived from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. Approximately 87.0% of consolidated patient days and 56.6% of consolidated net patient revenues were derived from the Medicare and Medicaid programs for the year ended June 30, 2013. Previous legislative changes have resulted in, and future legislative changes may result in, limitations on and reduced levels of payment and reimbursement for a substantial portion of hospital procedures and costs. Future healthcare legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of governmental healthcare programs may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Revenue and profitability of our subsidiaries’ healthcare facility operations, especially our community hospital operations, may be constrained by future cost containment initiatives undertaken by purchasers of healthcare services. Our subsidiaries’ hospitals have been affected by the increasing number of initiatives undertaken during the past several years by all major purchasers of healthcare, including (in addition to federal and state governments) insurance companies and employers, to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare expenditures in order to contain healthcare costs. Our community hospital operations derived approximately 43% of their consolidated net patient revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 from private payors and other non-governmental sources who contributed approximately 13% of consolidated patient days. Initiatives such as managed care organizations offering prepaid and discounted medical services packages have adversely affected hospital revenue growth throughout the country and such packages represent an increasing portion of SunLink’s subsidiaries’ admissions and outpatient revenues and have resulted in reduced revenue growth at our subsidiaries’ hospitals. In addition, private payers increasingly are attempting to control healthcare costs through direct contracting with hospitals to provide services on a discounted basis, increased utilization review and greater enrollment in managed care programs such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, referred to as PPOs. If our subsidiaries, specifically our hospital subsidiaries, are unable to contain costs through increased operational efficiencies and the trend toward declining reimbursements and payments continues, the results of healthcare facility segment operations and cash flow will be adversely affected and the results of our consolidated operations and our consolidated cash flow similarly likely would be adversely affected. Our healthcare subsidiaries, especially community hospital subsidiaries, face intense competition from other hospitals and healthcare providers which directly affect our segment and consolidated revenues and profitability. Although each of our subsidiaries’ hospitals operates in communities where they are currently the only general, acute care hospital, they face substantial competition from other hospitals, including larger tertiary care centers. Although these competing hospitals may be as far as 30 to 50 miles away, patients in these markets may migrate to these competing facilities as a result of local physician referrals, managed care plan incentives or personal choice. 35 Table of Contents The healthcare business is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Each of our subsidiaries’ hospitals operates in geographic areas where they compete with at least one other hospital that provides comparable services. Some of these competing facilities offer services, including extensive medical research and medical education programs, which are not offered by SunLink’s subsidiaries’ facilities. Some of the competing hospitals are owned or operated by tax-supported governmental bodies or by private not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions which can finance capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis and are exempt from sales, property, and income taxes. In some of these markets, SunLink’s subsidiaries’ hospitals also face competition from other for-profit hospital companies, some of which have substantially greater resources, as well as other providers such as outpatient surgery and diagnostic centers. The intense competition from other hospitals and other healthcare providers directly affects the market share of our subsidiaries’ community hospitals, as well as their and our revenues and profitability. Changes in market demographics may increase competition for certain of our subsidiaries’ community hospitals. Some of our subsidiaries’ hospitals are located in exurban areas which are becoming more suburban or metropolitan. Such markets are likely to attract additional competitors, including satellite operations of tertiary hospitals. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to fund capital improvements to our subsidiaries’ existing facilities, which may face additional competition or that even if financial resources are available to us, projected operating results will justify such expenditures. An inability to fund or the infeasibility of funding capital improvements could directly or indirectly have an adverse impact on hospital revenues through lower patient utilization, increased difficulty in physician recruitment and otherwise as a result of increased competition. SunLink’s subsidiaries’ hospitals are and other healthcare facilities may be subject to, and depend on, certificate of need laws which could affect their ability to operate profitably. All states in which SunLink subsidiaries currently operate hospitals and nursing homes have laws requiring approval for the purchase, construction or expansion of various healthcare facilities including hospitals, nursing homes and ambulatory surgery centers and the provision of various services. Under such certificate of need (“CON”) laws, prior state approval is required for the acquisition of major medical equipment or the purchase, lease, construction, expansion, sale or closure of covered healthcare facilities, based on a determination of need for additional or expanded facilities or services. The failure to obtain any required CON may impair SunLink’s subsidiaries’ ability to operate profitably. In addition, the elimination or modification of CON laws in states in which SunLink subsidiaries operate or in the future may operate hospitals and other covered healthcare facilities could subject such facilities to greater competition making it more difficult to operate profitably. If our subsidiaries’ hospitals fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems and transition to the ICD-10 coding system, our consolidated operations could be adversely affected. As required by ARRA, HHS has adopted an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and healthcare professionals that implement certified EHR technology and use it consistently with “meaningful use” requirements. If our subsidiaries’ hospitals and employed or contracted professionals do not meet the Medicare or Medicaid EHR incentive program requirements, their hospitals and clinics will not receive Medicare or Medicaid incentive payments to offset some of the costs of implementing the EHR systems. Further, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, eligible hospitals and physicians that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare. Failure to implement EHR systems effectively and in a timely manner could have a material, adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Health plans and providers, including our subsidiaries’ hospitals, are required to transition to the new ICD-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of billing codes used for inpatient claims. Under current regulations, use of the ICD-10 system is required beginning October 1, 2014. Transition to the new ICD-10 system requires significant investment in coding technology and software as well as the training of staff involved in the coding and billing process. In addition to these upfront costs of transition to ICD-10, it is possible that our subsidiaries’ hospitals could experience disruption or delays in payment due to technical or coding errors or other implementation issues involving systems or the systems and implementation efforts of health plans and their business partners. Risks Relating to our Specialty Pharmacy Business The operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment may be adversely affected by changes in government reimbursement regulations and payment levels. For the year ended June 30, 2013, the operation by ScriptsRX of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment derived approximately 51% of its net revenues from government payors, principally Medicare and Medicaid. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 exempted rural providers of home care related services from the competitive acquisition program to which urban providers are subject. We cannot assure you that the ASP reimbursement methodology will not be extended to the provision of all specialty pharmaceuticals or to the specialty pharmaceuticals most often sold by the ScriptsRx or that ScriptsRx will continue to be able to operate our Specialty Pharmacy Segment profitably at either existing or at lower reimbursement rates. Likewise, we cannot assure you that the Part B CAP program will not be extended to rural or exurban areas in general or to the areas in which ScriptsRx operates, or may seek to operate, in particular or that ScriptsRx would be able to meet the qualifications to become a Part B CAP vendor either now or at any time in the future. The operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment could be harmed by further changes in government purchasing methodologies and reimbursement rates for Medicare or Medicaid. In addition to the impact of MMA, in order to deal with budget shortfalls, some states are attempting to create state administered prescription drug discount plans, to limit the number of prescriptions per person that are covered, and to raise Medicaid co-pays and deductibles, and are proposing more restrictive formularies and reductions in pharmacy reimbursement rates. Any reductions in amounts reimbursable by other government programs for pharmacy services or changes in regulations governing such reimbursements could materially and adversely affect our pharmacy business, financial condition and results of operations. The durable medical equipment service line of ScriptsRx may be adversely affected by changes in government reimbursement regulations and payment levels, especially if durable medical equipment service line becomes subject to competitive bidding procedures. Although ScriptsRx is currently exempted under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 from the competitive acquisition program for DMEPOS, we cannot be sure such exemption will continue to be available in the future. Loss of such exemption could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. The operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment depend on a continuous supply of key products. Any shortages of key products could adversely affect the business of ScriptsRx. Many of the biopharmaceutical products distributed by the operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment are manufactured with ingredients that are susceptible to supply shortages. In addition, the manufacturers of these products may not have adequate manufacturing capability to meet rising demand. If any products distributed by ScriptsRx are in short supply for long periods of time, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents The operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment are highly dependent on relationships with key suppliers and the loss of any of such key suppliers could adversely affect the business of ScriptsRx. Any termination of, or adverse change in, our relationships with our key suppliers, or the loss of supply of one of our key products for any other reason, could have a material adverse effect on the business of ScriptsRx and our consolidated results of operations. The largest supplier for ScriptsRx accounted for approximately 79% of Carmichael’s cost of goods sold in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. Our specialty pharmacy operations have a single source of supply for many of our key products, including one product which accounted for approximately 27% of the segment’s cost of goods sold in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. In addition, ScriptsRx has few long-term contracts with its suppliers. Arrangements with most of its suppliers may be canceled by either party, without cause, on minimal notice and many of these arrangements are not governed by written agreements. The loss of one or more of larger institutional pharmacy customers could hurt our business by reducing the revenues and profitability of the operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment. As is customary in the institutional pharmacy industry, our Specialty Pharmacy Segment generally does not have long-term contracts with its institutional pharmacy customers. Significant declines in the level of purchases by one or more of the larger institutional pharmacy customers could have a material adverse effect on the business of ScriptsRx and our consolidated results of operations. The failure of ScriptsRx to maintain eligibility as a Medicare and Medicaid supplier could materially adversely affect its competitive position. Likewise, its failure to maintain and expand relationships with private payors, who can effectively determine the pharmacy source for their members, could materially adversely affect its competitive position. Changes in average wholesale prices could reduce our pricing and margins. Many government payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, have paid, or continue to pay, the operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment directly or indirectly at a rate based upon a drug’s AWP less a percentage factor. ScriptsRx also has contracted with some private payors to sell drugs at AWP or at AWP less a percentage factor. For most drugs, AWP is compiled and published by several private companies, including First DataBank, Inc. Several states have filed lawsuits against pharmaceutical manufacturers for allegedly inflating reported AWP for prescription drugs. In addition, class action lawsuits have been brought by consumers against pharmaceutical manufacturers alleging overstatement of AWP. We are not responsible for such calculations, reports or payments; however, there can be no assurance that the ability of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment to negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers will not be materially adversely affected by such investigations or lawsuits. The federal government also has entered into settlement agreements with several drug manufacturers relating to the calculation and reporting of AWP pursuant to which the drug manufacturers, among other things, have agreed to report new pricing information, the “average sales price”, to government healthcare programs. The average sales price is calculated differently than AWP. ScriptsRx faces numerous competitors and potential competitors in the market in which our Specialty Pharmacy Segment operates, many of whom are significantly larger and who have significantly greater financial resources. Large national companies operate in the existing market in which our Specialty Pharmacy Segment operates. We cannot assure you that one or more of such companies or other healthcare companies will not seek to compete or intensify their level of competition in the areas in which we conduct or may seek to conduct one or more of the components of the operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment. The operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment may be adversely affected by industry trends in managed care contracting and consolidation. 38 Table of Contents A growing number of health plans are contracting with a single provider of specialty pharmacy services. Likewise, manufacturers may not be eager to contract with regional providers of specialty pharmacy services. If ScriptsRx is unable to obtain managed care contracts in the areas in which we provide specialty pharmacy services or are unable to obtain specialty pharmacy products at reasonable costs or at all, the business operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment could be adversely affected. The specialty pharmacy market may grow slower than expected, which could adversely affect our revenues. We cannot predict the rate of actual future growth in product availability and spending, the extent to which patient demand or spending for specialty drug services in rural or exurban areas will match national averages or whether government payors will provide reimbursement for new products under Medicare or Medicaid on a timely basis, at what rates or at all. Adverse developments in any of these areas could have an adverse impact on the business operations of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment. The profitability of our Specialty Pharmacy Segment can be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs. Sales and profit margins of ScriptsRx are materially affected by the introduction of new brand name and generic drugs. New brand name drugs can result in increased drug utilization and associated sales revenues, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically result in relatively lower sales revenues, but higher gross profit margins. Accordingly, a decrease in the number of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced could adversely affect its results of operations. Other Risks Future developments could affect our ability to maintain adequate liquidity. Additionally, our ability to access alternative sources of capital is limited. Historically our available capital has been sufficient to meet our operating expenses, lease obligations, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures and we have managed our liquidity such that our aggregate unrestricted cash at June 30, 2013, was $2,497 and our Trace hospital subsidiary has a $1,000 revolving line of credit (of which $0 was drawn as of June 30, 2013). Future circumstances could require us to materially increase our revenues, materially reduce our expenses, or otherwise materially improve operating results, dispose of existing assets or obtain material new sources of capital in order to maintain adequate liquidity. The Company is currently limited in its ability to raise capital, debt or equity, in the public or private markets on what it considers acceptable terms, although it is actively seeking options to provide financing for the Company’s liquidity needs. Three of the Company’s subsidiaries have been able to borrow money through facility based mortgages, each of which is guaranteed by the Company, utilizing USDA Rural Development Authority guaranties, (individually, an “RDA Loan” and collectively, the “RDA Loans”), and, in the case of our Trace hospital subsidiary, obtain a working revolving capital loan facility of $1,000. The Company and its subsidiaries currently must fund working capital needs from cash from operations or from the sale of additional assets, and we cannot assure you that we would be successful in improving our results of operations, reducing our costs, obtaining additional credit facilities or selling additional assets. If we go private, holders of our securities will be subject to the risks of an investment in a private rather than a public company. In the event the Company is able to deregister its common stock under the Exchange Act, holders of our securities will be subject to the risks of an investment in a private rather than a public company. We cannot tell you when or if the Company will be entitled to deregister. Upon any deregistration of our shares, our duty to file periodic reports with the SEC will be suspended for as long as we have fewer than 300 record shareholders, and we will no longer be a public reporting company. In addition, we will be relieved of the obligation to comply with the requirements of the proxy rules under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. When and if the Company is able 39 Table of Contents to deregister, SunLink shares will no longer be listed on the NYSE Amex Equities stock exchange, and there may not be a sufficient number of shares outstanding and publicly traded following any deregistration to ensure a continued trading market in the shares in any over-the-counter market. The continued quotation of our common shares as well as the availability of any over-the-counter trading in our common shares will depend, in part, on the nature and extent of continued publicly available information about SunLink. Shareholders also could be adversely affected by a reduction in our “public float,” that is, the number of shares owned by outside shareholders and available for trading in the securities markets, especially if the Company makes future tender offers or private or open market purchases of its common shares. The suspension of our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act may further reduce the existing limited trading market for the Company’s shares and may result in a decline in the price of the Company’s shares and reduced liquidity in any trading market for our shares in the future. We may also have less access to capital markets and not be able to use the Company’s shares to effect acquisitions as a non-reporting company. Forward-looking statements in this annual report may prove inaccurate. This document contains forward-looking statements about SunLink that are not historical facts but, rather, are statements about future expectations. Forward-looking statements in this document are based on management’s current views and assumptions and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to be materially different from those projected. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Important factors, some of which are beyond the control of SunLink, could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include those described above under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report under “Forward-Looking Statements.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 40 Table of Contents 