ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are some of the principal risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this Report. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report, including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate sections in Item 7 below, "Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," and Note 2, "Liquidity and Management Plans," of the Notes to Financial Statements should be considered in addition to the following statements. THE JUDICIAL RESTRUCTURING OF OUR BRAZILIAN ENGINE MANUFACTURING SUBSIDIARY MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE ENGINE GROUP AS A WHOLE, OTHER SUBSIDIARIES, OR THE PARENT COMPANY. Our Brazilian engine manufacturing subsidiary, TMT Motoco, is pursuing a judicial restructuring, similar to a U.S. Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing. TMT Motoco will remain in possession of its assets during the restructuring process. The filing in Brazil constituted an event of default with our domestic lenders. On April 9, 2007 we obtained further amendments to our First and Second Lien Credit Agreements that cured the cross-default provisions triggered by the filing in Brazil. These amendments are included as Exhibits to a Current Report on Form 8-K that we filed on April 10, and further discussed in "Adequacy of Liquidity Sources" and Note 10, "Debt." TMT Motoco is currently in the process of delineating its restructuring plan, which must be submitted to the Brazilian court within sixty days of the date the restructuring request was granted. Our management continues to assess the potential impact, if any, on the Engine Group as a whole or on our other businesses. With respect to the Engine Group, there is still uncertainty as to the impact this restructuring will have our long-term manufacturing configuration in order to ensure ongoing supply of lawn and garden products to our customers. With respect to our other subsidiaries, we are working to protect these other businesses from any adverse effects of the events at TMT Motoco to the greatest extent possible. In particular, we are working to ensure that our Brazilian compressor subsidiary, Tecumseh do Brasil ("TdB"), maintains its credit facilities and continues to successfully meet its obligations to its suppliers and customers. However, since TdB maintains its credit facilities with some of the same banks that were affected by the restructuring of TMT Motoco, we cannot assure you that these lenders will continue to extent their credit facilities to TdB. In 2006, total sales generated by TdB amounted to approximately 41% of total Compressor Products segment sales; any withdrawal of its credit facilities would have a material adverse effect on the Compressor Group, and on the company as a whole. WE MAY NOT MEET OUR 2007 BUSINESS PLAN UPON WHICH OUR BANK COVENANTS ARE BASED. In order to meet our 2007 financial covenants, we must realize significant improvements over our reported 2006 results. To avoid defaults under financial covenants, we have been forced to amend or 13 refinance our U.S. credit agreements for five out of the last seven fiscal quarters. While our current agreements provide somewhat wider latitude than we have enjoyed under prior agreements, and our business plan for the upcoming year does not predict any defaults, we cannot continue to sustain losses at current levels without consuming our available capital resources and again failing to meet financial covenants. If we default under our U.S. credit agreements, either through failing to meet financial covenants or in some other way, our lenders could elect to stop making the advances we need to fund daily operations, could declare all the debt we owe them immediately due and payable, and could proceed against their collateral. Under those circumstances, we might elect or be compelled to enter bankruptcy proceedings, in which case our shareholders could lose the entire value of their investment in our common stock. OUR LEVERAGE MAY IMPAIR OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. As of December 31, 2006, our total consolidated debt was $380.5 million. Our debt could have important consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest rather than to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate. The agreements governing our debt include covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt; pay dividends on or repurchase our equity; make investments; and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants may also require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. We cannot assure you that we will meet any future financial tests or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. WE MAY DISPOSE OF SOME OF OUR LINES OF BUSINESS OR BECOME EVEN MORE LEVERAGED. Our Second Lien Credit Agreement requires us to accrue additional paid-in-kind ("PIK") interest if we do not reduce the principal balance according to a specified, but not required, schedule. If funds from operations combined with proceeds of potential asset sales are insufficient to meet the payment schedule, the resulting PIK interest will increase our total debt, thus increasing the leverage risks described above. If we choose to sell any of our businesses or product lines thereof, the proceeds will be used to reduce our indebtedness. The degree of favorable impact to our lines of credit at the time of sale will be dependent on the magnitude of the assets sold. As well, there will be a long-term effect on our future cash flows and results of operations, as well as ongoing compliance with our debt covenants, including compliance with modified EBITDA covenants as defined by our bank agreements (our "Adjusted EBITDA"). WE ARE SUBJECT TO CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE AND OTHER RELATED RISKS. We conduct operations in many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In particular, this situation exists for us with respect to our Brazilian operations, which have sales denominated in the U.S. dollar 14 and the Euro. In 2006, total sales generated by Tecumseh do Brasil amounted to approximately 41% of total Compressor Products segment sales. In addition, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. While we customarily enter into financial transactions to mitigate these risks, we cannot assure that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. OUR BUSINESSES OPERATE IN HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKETS. Our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. We compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, our three business segments operate in environments where worldwide productive capacities exceed global demand and customers and competitors are establishing new productive capacities in low cost countries, including China. These trends have resulted in the need for us to restructure our operations by removing excess capacities, lowering our cost of purchased inputs and shifting productive capacities to low cost countries in order to improve our overall cost structure, restore margins and improve our competitive position in our major markets. There is no guarantee that these initiatives, which have included plant closures, headcount reductions, expanded operations in low-cost countries (including China, India and Brazil) and global sourcing initiatives, will be successful in setting the stage for improvement in profitability in the future. MATERIAL COST INFLATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We are experiencing material cost inflation in a number of our businesses. We are striving for greater productivity improvements and implementing increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in base materials such as copper, aluminum, steel, resins, as well as other input costs including ocean freight, fuel, health care and insurance. We also are continuing to implement our excellence in operations initiatives in order to continuously reduce our costs. We cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful to manage our costs or increase our productivity. Continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity may negatively impact our results of operations. 15 SEASONALITY OF SALES AND WEATHER CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We experience seasonal and weather-related fluctuations in demand in each of our segments. End-user demand for equipment, particularly air conditioners, lawn and garden products, portable power generators and snow throwers, follows weather trends, water patterns (such as heavy droughts or flooding) or can be related to natural catastrophes. We cannot assure you that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY LITIGATION. Our business exposes us to potential litigation, especially product liability suits that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products. These claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. As we self-insure a portion of product liability claims, an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim or series of successful claims could materially and adversely affect our product reputation and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our Company. WE ARE EXPOSED TO POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND OTHER RISKS THAT ARISE FROM OPERATING A MULTINATIONAL BUSINESS. Sales outside of North America, including export sales from North American businesses, accounted for approximately 52% of our net sales in 2006. Further, certain of our businesses obtain raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include: - the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; - trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; - tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; - the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; - difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; - the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may be more difficult; - required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and - changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. Our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. 16 OUR OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS. Our plants and operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure that we will not be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination, and the amount of such liability could be material. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY WORK STOPPAGES AND OTHER LABOR MATTERS. As of December 31, 2006, we employed approximately 18,500 persons worldwide. Approximately 700 of our U.S. employees are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements with various unions. The majority of foreign location personnel are represented by national trade unions. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters, we cannot assure you that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by our customers could result in slow-downs or closures at vehicle assembly plants where our engines are installed. If one or more of our customers experience a material work stoppage, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO RECALL FOR PERFORMANCE RELATED ISSUES. We incur product recall costs when we decide, either voluntarily or involuntarily, to recall a product through a formal campaign to solicit the return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance issue. Costs typically include the cost of the product, part or component being replaced, customer cost of the recall and labor to remove and replace the defective part or component. When a recall decision is made, we estimate the cost of the recall and record a charge to earnings in that period. In making this estimate, judgment is required as to the quantity or volume to be recalled, the total cost of the recall campaign, the ultimate negotiated sharing of the cost between us and the customer and, in some cases, the extent to which the supplier of the part or component will share in the recall cost. As a result, these estimates are subject to change. Due to the nature of these actions, several recalls experienced simultaneously or one of particular significance could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. INCREASED OR UNEXPECTED PRODUCT WARRANTY CLAIMS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. We provide our customers a warranty on products we manufacture. Our warranty generally provides that products will be free from defects for periods ranging from 12 months to 36 months. If a product fails to comply with the warranty, we may be obligated, at our expense, to correct any defect by repairing or replacing the defective product. Although we maintain warranty reserves in an amount based primarily on the number of units shipped and on historical and anticipated warranty claims, there can be no assurance that future warranty claims will follow historical patterns or that we can accurately anticipate the level of future warranty claims. An increase in the rate of warranty claims or 17 the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 