ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are material risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this Report. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report, including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section in Item 7 below, “Cautionary Statements Relating To Forward-Looking Statements,” should be considered in addition to the following statements. Current and future global economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, liquidity and profitability. The recent global recession, precipitated by the financial crisis, had a detrimental effect on our sales volumes during 2009. Given that the slowdown in economic activity has affected all of the geographic regions where we sell our products with nearly equal severity, the impact on our financial results in these periods has been significant. Global economic conditions, in fact, may continue to decline in the short term, and the depth and extent of this decline cannot be forecasted with certainty. We cannot project the timeframe within which economic conditions will begin to improve. Accordingly, we have idled underutilized assets and reduced employment levels throughout the world. Notwithstanding the actions we have taken to address the economic contraction, further declines would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents We are subject to currency exchange rate and other related risks. The compressor industry and our business in particular are characterized by global and regional markets that are served by manufacturing locations positioned throughout the world. An increasing portion of our manufacturing presence is in international locations. During 2009, approximately 77% of our compressor manufacturing activity took place outside the United States. Our Brazilian, European and Indian manufacturing operations delivered approximately 35%, 30% and 12% of total 2009 compressor sales, respectively. As a result, our consolidated financial results are increasingly sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations are substantially affected by several types of foreign exchange risk. One type is balance sheet re-measurement risk, which results when assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. This risk applies for our Brazilian operation, which denominates certain of its borrowings in U.S. dollars. The periodic re-measurement of these liabilities is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations. Another significant risk for our business is transaction risk, which occurs when the foreign currency exchange rate changes between the date that a transaction is expected and when it is executed, such as collection of sales or purchase of goods. This risk affects our business adversely when foreign currencies strengthen against the dollar, which until recently has been the case for the last several years. We have developed strategies to mitigate or partially offset these impacts, primarily hedging against transactional exposure where the risk of loss is greatest. In particular, we have entered into foreign currency forward purchases to hedge Brazilian export sales, some of which are denominated in U.S. dollars and some in euros. To a lesser extent, we have also entered into foreign currency forward purchases to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the euro and the Indian rupee. However, these hedging programs only reduce exposure to currency movements over the limited time frame of three to eighteen months. Additionally, if the currencies weaken against the dollar, any hedge contracts that have been entered into at higher rates result in losses to our consolidated statements of operations when they are settled. In 2009, the euro and rupee strengthened against the dollar by 2.4% and 4.5%, respectively. This resulted in gains to our consolidated statements of operations for the settlement of currency contracts. In general, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar is favorable to our overall results over time; however, the rapid and significant weakening of foreign currencies will cause balance sheet re-measurement losses to out-weigh the favorable impacts of net transactional gains in the period. Ultimately, long term changes in currency exchange rates have lasting effects on the relative competitiveness of operations located in certain countries versus competitors located in different countries. Currency exchange rate fluctuations might adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, particularly over the long term. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with short-term protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. Volatility of commodity costs could adversely affect our results of operations. One of the most significant cost impacts to the business have been the prices of certain key commodities, including copper and steel, both major cost components of compressors. Copper prices increased by 130% from December 2008 year end levels to December 2009 year end levels due to a significant decline in copper prices in the 4th quarter of 2008. Average cost of copper for the full year 2009 was 34% lower than 2008, primarily due to lower prices in the first three quarters of 2009 versus 2008. Steel prices decreased by 8% from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. Average cost of steel for the full year 2009 was 43% lower than 2008. Due to competitive markets, we are typically not able to quickly recover products cost increases through price increases or other cost savings. While we have been proactive in addressing volatility of these costs, including executing forward purchases and future contracts to cover approximately 50% of our anticipated copper requirements for 2010, renewed rapid escalation of these costs would nonetheless have an adverse effect on our results of operations both in the near and long term. In addition, our hedges will offset most of the benefits of any price decreases in 2010. We are striving for greater productivity improvements and implementing increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in copper and steel as well as other base materials including aluminum, as well as other input costs including ocean freight, fuel, health care and insurance. We are also continuing to implement operational initiatives in order to continuously reduce our costs. These actions might not be successful to manage our costs or increase our productivity. Continued volatility of base metals or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity may negatively impact our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We may not maintain our current level of liquidity. With the proceeds of divestitures of our former engine and power train and electrical components business operations, we eliminated all our North American debt, and accumulated substantial net cash on our balance sheet. This cash balance has become increasingly important in light of recently constrained capital markets and the current economic environment. However, we may not be able to maintain our current levels of liquidity. We have incurred significant net losses in each of the last five years, including significant operating losses in three of the last four years. Challenges remain with respect to our ability to generate appropriate levels of liquidity solely from cash flows from operations, particularly challenges related to global economic conditions, currency exchange effects and commodity pricing. We only generated cash from operations of $1.6 million in 2009. While we expect continued improvement as our restructuring activities take effect, we still may not be able to generate cash from operations unless further restructuring activities are implemented and/or economic conditions improve. While we believe that current cash balances combined with available borrowings and the cash to be generated by the pension plan reversion and tax refunds will produce adequate liquidity to implement our business strategy over at least the next twelve months, there can be no assurance that such improvements will ultimately be adequate if economic conditions deteriorate. In addition, while our business dispositions have improved our liquidity, many of the sale agreements provide for certain retained liabilities, indemnities and/or purchase price adjustments including liabilities that relate to environmental issues and product warranties. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings — Platinum” for a description of a lawsuit by the buyer of our gas-powered engine subsidiary. Future events could result in the recognition of additional liabilities that could consume available liquidity and management attention. We operate in highly competitive markets. All of the compressor and condensing unit markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete on the basis of delivery, efficiency, noise level, price, compliance with various global environmental standards and reliability. For most applications there are numerous competitors, some of which have larger product lines and greater financial, technical, manufacturing, research and development and management resources than we do. If our products do not meet or exceed the attributes of our competitor’s offerings, we could be at a disadvantage in the affected product lines. These and other factors might have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, we operate in environments where worldwide productive capacities exceed global demand and customers and competitors are establishing new productive capacities in low cost countries, including China. These trends may put downward pressure on prices and reduce our margins. These trends may also result in the need for us to restructure our operations further by removing excess capacities, lowering our cost of purchased inputs and shifting productive capacities to low cost countries in order to improve our overall cost structure, restore margins and improve our competitive position in our major markets. There is no guarantee that these initiatives, which have included plant closures, headcount reductions and expanded operations in low-cost countries will be successful in setting the stage for improvement in profitability in the future. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. Our business exposes us to potential litigation, such as product liability suits that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products. We are also potentially exposed to litigation related to prior sales of businesses, securities law or other types of business disputes. These claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. As we self-insure a portion of product liability claims, an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim or series of successful claims could materially and adversely affect our product reputation and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. As is further discussed in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” we are one of several companies involved in investigations into possible anti-competitive practices in the compressor industry. While we have entered into conditional amnesty agreements under which we do not expect to be subject to criminal prosecution with respect to the investigation, we are not exempt from civil litigation. As of the date of this report, numerous class action civil suits had been filed, and additional suits may be forthcoming. Even a successful defense against these claims could result in significant legal costs, and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents As is further described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” we are being sued by the buyer of our gas-powered engine business. Similar to other legal matters noted above, the outcome of the litigation may not be successful and legal costs and potential settlements may negatively impact our business. We are exposed to political, regulatory, economic, and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. Sales into countries outside of North America, including export sales from North American businesses, accounted for approximately 81% of our net sales in 2009. Further, certain of our businesses obtain raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; • the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; • the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries; and • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. Our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our operations and products are subject to extensive environmental laws and energy regulations. Our manufacturing operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. These regulations can vary widely across the countries in which we do business. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we could still be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing, previously divested, or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination and the amount of such liability could be material. See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplemental Data — Note 16” for a description of our environmental matters. In addition, governmental regulations affect the types of refrigerants that may be utilized in our products, and this global scrutiny continues to evolve over time. We have continued to address these changes in regulation by approving and releasing new models that meet governmental and consumer requirements. We also strive to have our products meet requirements for energy efficiency, which can vary substantially in the different geographic markets in which we sell our products. Future legislation may require substantial levels of expenditure to meet industry requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 7,600 persons worldwide. The majority of people we employ in foreign locations, approximately 6,800, are represented by national trade unions. While we do not believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters, future issues with our labor unions might not be resolved favorably and we might encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by our customers could result in slow-downs or closures at their plants where our products are installed. If one or more of our customers experience a material work stoppage, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased or unexpected product warranty claims could adversely affect us. We provide our customers a warranty on products we manufacture. Our warranty generally provides that products will be free from defects for periods ranging from 12 months to 36 months. If a product fails to comply with the warranty, we may be obligated, at our expense, to correct any defect by repairing or replacing the defective product. Although we maintain warranty reserves in an amount based primarily on the number of units shipped and on historical and anticipated warranty claims, future warranty claims might not follow historical patterns or we might not accurately anticipate the level of future warranty claims. An increase in the rate of warranty claims or the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 Table of Contents 