ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are some of the principal risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this Report. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report, including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section in Item 7 below, "Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," should be considered in addition to the following statements. WE ARE SUBJECT TO CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE AND OTHER RELATED RISKS. We conduct operations in many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In particular, this situation exists for us with respect to our Brazilian operations, which have costs denominated in the Brazilian Real, but the majority of its sales (approximately 60%) denominated in other currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar and the Euro. Only one major competitor faces similar exposure to the Real. Other competitors, particularly those with operations in countries where the currency has been substantially pegged to the U.S. dollar, currently enjoy a cost advantage over our business. In the aggregate, approximately 80% of our total compressor sales are outside the U.S. Our Brazilian, European and Indian operations comprised approximately 41%, 28% and 11% of total 2007 compressor sales respectively. In addition, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. While we customarily enter into currency hedging instruments to partially mitigate these risks, we cannot assure that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, particularly over the long term. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with short-term protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. MATERIAL COST INFLATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We are experiencing material cost inflation in a number of our businesses. The most significant inflationary impact to the business has been the price of copper, a major cost component of compressors, which has increased by over 40% since the beginning of 2006. We currently hold more than 62% of our total projected copper requirements for 2008 in the form of forward purchase contracts, which will provide us with substantial (though not total) protection from further price increases during the year but also will detract from our ability to benefit from any price decreases. We also expect the cost of steel and other purchased materials to be more costly in 2008 versus 2007. We are striving for greater productivity improvements and implementing increases in selling prices 12 to help mitigate cost increases in copper and other base materials including aluminum, steel, and resins, as well as other input costs including ocean freight, fuel, health care and insurance. We also are continuing to implement operational initiatives in order to continuously reduce our costs. We cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful to manage our costs or increase our productivity. Continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity may negatively impact our results of operations. WE MAY NOT MAINTAIN OUR CURRENT LEVEL OF LIQUIDITY. Upon completion of the divestitures of the business operations as previously discussed, we eliminated all our domestic debt. However, challenges remain with respect to our ability to maintain appropriate levels of liquidity, particularly those driven by currency exchange and commodity pricing. With expected further weakness of the U.S. dollar versus key currencies such as the Brazilian Real and the Indian Rupee, we expect that we will generate a limited amount of cash until further restructuring activities are implemented or economic conditions improve. As part of our strategy to maintain sufficient liquidity, we are in the final phases of negotiating a new financing arrangement for our North American based activities, and seeking longer term committed financing arrangements in Brazil. In addition, we are generating other sources of cash through activities such as the termination and reversion of our vastly over-funded pension plans and collection of refundable non-income taxes in Brazil. While we believe that these and other activities will produce adequate liquidity to implement our business strategy over a reasonable time horizon, there can be no assurance that such improvements will ultimately be adequate if economic conditions continue to deteriorate. In addition, while our business dispositions have improved our liquidity, each of the sale agreements provide for certain retained liabilities or indemnities, including liabilities that relate to environmental issues and product warranties. While we currently believe we have adequately provided for such contingent liabilities, future events could result in the recognition of additional liabilities that could consume available liquidity and management attention. ANY FUTURE DIVESTITURES OF NON-CORE PORTIONS OF THE BUSINESS MAY RESULT IN FURTHER LOSSES ON THE SALE OF ASSETS. While we divested the majority of our non-core business operations in 2007, certain remaining portions of the Electrical Components business are still classified as held for sale. While management believes that the assets associated with these businesses are appropriately recorded at their fair value, further impairments associated with their eventual sale or expenses associated with the sale transaction could occur, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. OUR BUSINESSES OPERATE IN HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKETS. Our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. We compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, we operate in environments where worldwide productive capacities exceed global demand and customers and competitors are establishing new productive capacities in low cost countries, including China. These trends have resulted in the need for us to restructure our operations by removing excess capacities, lowering our cost of purchased inputs and shifting productive capacities to low cost countries in order to improve our overall cost structure, restore margins and 13 improve our competitive position in our major markets. There is no guarantee that these initiatives, which have included plant closures, headcount reductions, expanded operations in low-cost countries (including China and India) and global sourcing initiatives, will be successful in setting the stage for improvement in profitability in the future. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY LITIGATION. Our business exposes us to potential litigation, especially product liability suits that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products. These claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. As we self-insure a portion of product liability claims, an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim or series of successful claims could materially and adversely affect our product reputation and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our Company. WE ARE EXPOSED TO POLITICAL, REGULATORY, ECONOMIC, AND OTHER RISKS THAT ARISE FROM OPERATING A MULTINATIONAL BUSINESS. Sales outside of North America, including export sales from North American businesses, accounted for approximately 76% of our net sales in 2007. Further, certain of our businesses obtain raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include: - the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; - required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; - trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; - tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; - the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; - difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; - the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries; and - changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. Our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. OUR OPERATIONS AND PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND ENERGY REGULATIONS. Our plants and operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of 14 waste materials. These regulations can vary widely across the countries in which we do business. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure that we will not be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing, previously divested, or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination and the amount of such liability could be material. In addition, governmental regulations affect the types of refrigerants that may be utilized in our products, and this global scrutiny continues to evolve over time. We have continued to address these changes in regulation by approving and releasing new models that meet governmental and consumer requirements. We also strive to have our products meet requirements for energy efficiency, which can vary substantially across the global communities in which we sell our products. Future legislation may require substantial levels of expenditure to meet industry requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY WORK STOPPAGES AND OTHER LABOR MATTERS. As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 10,300 persons worldwide. Approximately 210 of our U.S. employees are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements with various unions. The majority of the nearly 9,000 people we employ in foreign locations are represented by national trade unions. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters, we cannot assure you that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by our customers could result in slow-downs or closures at vehicle assembly plants where our engines are installed. If one or more of our customers experience a material work stoppage, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO RECALL FOR PERFORMANCE RELATED ISSUES. We incur product recall costs when we decide, either voluntarily or involuntarily, to recall a product through a formal campaign to solicit the return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance issue. Costs typically include the cost of the product, part or component being replaced, customer cost of the recall and labor to remove and replace the defective part or component. When a recall decision is made, we estimate the cost of the recall and record a charge to earnings in that period. In making this estimate, judgment is required as to the quantity or volume to be recalled, the total cost of the recall campaign, the ultimate negotiated sharing of the cost between us and the customer and, in some cases, the extent to which the supplier of the part or component will share in the recall cost. As a result, these estimates are subject to change. Due to the nature of these actions, several recalls experienced simultaneously or one of particular significance could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. INCREASED OR UNEXPECTED PRODUCT WARRANTY CLAIMS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. We provide our customers a warranty on products we manufacture. Our warranty generally provides that products will be free from defects for periods ranging from 12 months to 36 months. If a product fails to comply with the warranty, we may be obligated, at our expense, to correct any defect by 15 repairing or replacing the defective product. Although we maintain warranty reserves in an amount based primarily on the number of units shipped and on historical and anticipated warranty claims, there can be no assurance that future warranty claims will follow historical patterns or that we can accurately anticipate the level of future warranty claims. An increase in the rate of warranty claims or the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 