ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are descriptions of material risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements contained in this Report. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary statements concerning forward-looking statements in this Report, including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section in Item 7 below, “Cautionary Statements Relating To Forward Looking Statements,” should be considered in addition to the following statements. Current and future global or regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, liquidity and profitability. Our sales volumes, liquidity and profitability depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. The global recession precipitated by the financial crisis, had a detrimental effect on our sales volumes over the last several years, and a related detrimental effect on our liquidity and profitability. A number of factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer confidence, debt levels, 7 Table of Contents retail trends, housing starts, inventory levels, commodity costs and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, and reduced purchases by customers of our products because of uncertainty regarding purchases of their products by consumers and others. In the event of financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. This could have a number of effects on our business, including the inability of end customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of products containing our products, and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions. A decline in economic activity and conditions, or continued volatility in global economic conditions in the U.S., Brazil, Europe, Asia and the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including our sales volumes, liquidity and profitability. Regional economic conditions can also have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, with a resulting adverse impact on our liquidity and profitability. For example, lower commodities costs in China during 2011 coupled with a generally strengthening and volatility of the Brazilian Real over the past several years (although it weakened overall in 2011) have allowed manufacturers located in China to charge less for their products and gain market share in India and Brazil, despite trade barriers in those countries. The general strengthening and volatility of the Brazilian Real over the past several years (although it weakened overall in 2011) generally makes our exported products more expensive than those of our competitors that do not manufacture in Brazil. The U.S. market for R&F products is already saturated, and the Brazilian market is expected to become saturated in less than four years. All of these conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including our sales volumes, liquidity and profitability. The loss of, or substantial decline in sales to, any of our key customers, including Electrolux or Whirlpool, could adversely affect our sales volumes, profitability and liquidity. In 2011, our largest customers, Electrolux and Whirlpool Corporation, both of whom were R&F customers, accounted for 10.0% and 8.1%, respectively of consolidated net sales. Loss of either of these customers, or substantial declines in sales to either of them, could have an adverse effect on our sales volumes and our resulting profitability and liquidity. In 2011, one of the reasons for our decline in sales of compressors used in R&F applications was due to a customer shifting its production to manufacture more of its products internally. Generally, we do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers, making it easier for the customer to change volume among suppliers. Larger customers may also seek to use their position to improve their performance by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to meet their requirements, our sales volume and related profitability and liquidity could be negatively affected. Additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, by these large customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. We might not maintain our current level of liquidity. Our cash position has become increasingly important in light of constrained capital markets and the current economic environment and was accumulated largely due to non-recurring divestitures and pension plan reversions. However, we may not be able to maintain our current levels of liquidity. We have incurred significant net losses and operating losses in each of the last three years and used significant cash in operations in 2010 and 2011, including $5.3 million used in 2011. Challenges remain with respect to our ability to generate appropriate levels of liquidity solely from cash flows from operations, particularly uncertainties related to future sales levels, global economic conditions, currency exchange effects and commodity pricing. We may not be able to generate cash from operations unless further restructuring activities are implemented and/or economic conditions improve. Such restructuring activities could include reducing our manufacturing capacity, selling assets or reducing the number of our employees. Additional restructuring actions could result in further restructuring, asset impairment charges, losses on asset sales and severance costs, and, accordingly, could have a significant effect on our consolidated financial position, operating profit, cash flows and future operating results. While we believe that current cash balances, available borrowings under available credit facilities and cash inflows related to non-income tax refunds will produce adequate liquidity to implement our business strategy over at least the next twelve months, there can be no assurance that such improvements will ultimately be adequate if sales or economic conditions deteriorate. In addition, while our business dispositions in prior years have improved our liquidity, many of the sale agreements provide for certain retained liabilities, indemnities and/or purchase price adjustments including liabilities 8 Table of Contents that relate to environmental issues and product warranties. See “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies – Litigation” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of a lawsuit by the buyer of our gas-powered engine subsidiary. Future events could result in the recognition of additional liabilities that could consume available liquidity and management attention. If we are unable to restructure to reduce our costs and increase productivity and quality and develop successful new products, our sales could be adversely affected and we might not become profitable. If we do not effectively reduce costs, increase productivity and make quality improvements we might not become profitable. In addition, if we are unable to develop and successfully market competitive products our sales volumes could be adversely affected. Products in our markets are relatively undifferentiated and competitors are introducing many new products, but before the introduction of our Mini and Midi compressor platforms, our products were behind those of our competitors. Our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and on our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. If we fail to do so, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We operate in highly competitive markets. All of the compressor and condensing unit markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete on the basis of efficiency, price, sound level, refrigerant, delivery, reliability, availability and service, as well as compliance with various global environmental and safety standards and regulations. For most applications there are numerous competitors, some of which have larger product lines and greater financial, technical, manufacturing, research and development and management resources than we do. Products in our markets are relatively undifferentiated and competitors are introducing many new products, but before the introduction of our Mini and Midi compressor platforms, our products were behind those of our competitors with respect to some of these competitive factors. If our products do not meet or exceed the attributes of our competitor’s offerings, we could be at a disadvantage in the affected product lines. These and other factors might have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, we operate in environments where worldwide productive capacities exceed global demand and customers and competitors are establishing new productive capacities in low cost countries. These trends have put downward pressure on prices and reduced our margins and in some cases have resulted in us losing market share. These trends may also result in the need for us to restructure our operations further by removing excess capacities, lowering our cost of purchased inputs and engaging in joint ventures with manufacturers in low cost countries in order to improve our overall cost structure, restore margins and improve our competitive position in our major markets. There is no guarantee that these initiatives, which could include plant closures, reductions in the number of our employees, asset sales and expanded operations in low cost countries, would improve our profitability in the future. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. Our business exposes us to potential litigation, such as product liability suits that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products. We are also potentially exposed to litigation related to prior sales of businesses, securities laws, antitrust laws or other types of business disputes. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and can cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. We estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and the amount is reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. Actual results may significantly vary from our reserves. As we self-insure a portion of product liability claims, an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim or series of successful claims against us could materially and adversely affect our product reputation and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. 9 Table of Contents Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we cannot be certain that existing litigation or any future adverse legal developments will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. See “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies – Litigation” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of our legal matters. We are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations and actions by other third parties relating to antitrust laws that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We are one of several companies involved in investigations by government regulators in various jurisdictions into possible anti-competitive practices in the compressor industry. While we have entered into conditional amnesty agreements under which we do not expect to be subject to criminal prosecution with respect to the investigations, we are not exempt from civil litigation. We have been named as a defendant in numerous related class action lawsuits in various jurisdictions, which lawsuits seek damages in connection with the pricing of compressors; additional lawsuits may be filed. The impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Price volatility for commodities we purchase could have an adverse effect on our cash flow or results of operations. One of the most significant cost and cash flow impacts on our business is the price of raw materials, such as steel, copper and aluminum. The prices of these commodities have remained extremely volatile over the past few years and due to competitive markets, we are typically not able to quickly recover product cost increases through price increases or other cost savings. While we have been proactive in addressing volatility of these costs by using derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of certain raw materials, our hedged price could result in our paying higher or lower prices for commodities as compared to the market prices for those commodities when purchased and will not protect us against longer term price increases. Decreases in spot prices below our hedged prices can put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less hedged competitors and can also require us to post cash collateral with our hedge counterparties, which could impact our liquidity and cash flows. At December 31, 2011, we were required to post $5.6 million of cash collateral on our hedges. In addition, increases in steel prices have a particularly negative impact as there is currently no well-established global market for hedging against increases in the cost of steel. These hedging activities might not be successful to manage our costs. Continued volatility of commodities or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity may negatively impact our results of operations. See “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary – Commodities” and “—Outlook” and “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Commodity Price Risk” for a description of raw material price volatility and a description of our hedging activity. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. We are exposed to significant exchange rate risk because the majority of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are derived from operations conducted outside the U.S. in local and other currencies and, for purposes of financial reporting, the results are translated into U.S. Dollars based on currency exchange rates prevailing during or at the end of the reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. Dollar, our reported net revenues and net income (loss) and assets are reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. Dollars, and during times of a weakening U.S. Dollar, our reported expenses and liabilities are increased because the local currency will translate into more U.S. Dollars. During periods of local economic crises, non-U.S. currencies may be devalued significantly against the U.S. Dollar, thereby reducing our reported revenues, income (loss) and assets. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. However, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against major currencies could materially affect our financial results. We are also exposed to significant exchange rate risk when an operation has sales or expense transactions in a currency that differs from its local, functional currency or when the sales and expenses are denominated in different currencies. Since our primary risk stems from sales transacted at foreign locations that have the resulting receivable denominated in U.S. Dollars, this risk affects our business adversely when the Real, Euro or Rupee strengthens against the Dollar, which has generally been the case for the last several years (other than 2011) for the Real. In those cases, when the receivable is ultimately paid in less valuable U.S. Dollars, the foreign location realizes less net revenue in its local currency, which can adversely impact its margins. We have developed strategies to mitigate or 10 Table of Contents partially offset these impacts, primarily hedging against transactional exposure where the risk of loss is greatest. While the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with short-term protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Ultimately, long term changes in currency exchange rates have lasting effects on the relative competitiveness of operations located in certain countries versus competitors located in different countries. See “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary – Currency Exchange” and “—Outlook” and “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Foreign Currency Exchange Risk” for a description of foreign currency volatility and a description of our hedging activity. Significant supply interruptions could have an adverse effect on our cash flow or results of operations. We generally concentrate purchases for a given raw material or component with a small number of suppliers. Although we believe there are alternative suppliers for all of our key raw material and components needs, if a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our supply requirements, we could experience supply interruptions or cost increases, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with changes in local government regulations. Our international sales and operations, including our purchases of raw materials from international suppliers, are subject to risks associated with changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, employment, and governmental expropriation, governmental regulations that may be disadvantageous to businesses owned by foreign nationals, and instabilities in the workforce due to changing political and social conditions. Our international sales and operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets, as well as to political and economic instability. International transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries. The ability to manage these risks could be difficult and may limit our operations and make the manufacture and sale of our products internationally more difficult, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. See “Item 7– Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary – Liquidity” and “Liquidity Sources – Cash inflows related to taxes” for a description of our outstanding refundable non-income taxes in Brazil. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. Our operations and products are subject to extensive environmental laws and energy regulations. Our manufacturing operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. These regulations can vary widely across the countries in which we do business. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we could still be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing, previously divested, or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination and the amount of such liability could be material. See “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of our environmental matters. In addition, governmental regulations affect the types of refrigerants that may be utilized in our products, and this global scrutiny continues to evolve over time. We have continued to address these changes in regulation by approving and releasing new models that meet governmental and consumer requirements. We also strive to have 11 Table of Contents our products meet requirements for energy efficiency, which can vary substantially in the different geographic markets in which we sell our products. Future legislation may require substantial levels of expenditure to meet industry requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased or unexpected product warranty claims could adversely affect us. We provide our customers a warranty on products we manufacture. Our warranty generally provides that products will be free from defects for periods ranging from 12 months to 36 months. If a product fails to comply with the warranty, we may be obligated, at our expense, to correct any defect by repairing or replacing the defective product. Although we maintain warranty reserves in an amount based primarily on the number of units shipped and on historical and anticipated warranty claims, future warranty claims might not follow historical patterns or we might not accurately anticipate the level of future warranty claims. An increase in the rate of warranty claims or the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 6,100 full-time equivalent employees and an additional 800 temporary employees and contractors worldwide. The majority of people we employ on a full time and temporary basis are in foreign locations and approximately 6,250 are represented by national trade unions. While we do not believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters, future issues with our labor unions might not be resolved favorably and we might encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by our customers could result in slow-downs or closures at their plants where our products are installed. If one or more of our customers experience a material work stoppage, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 