ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are some of the principal risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this Report. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report, including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section in Item 7 below, “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” should be considered in addition to the following statements. Current and future global economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, liquidity and profitability. The recent global recession, precipitated by the financial crisis, has had a substantial detrimental effect on our sales volumes. This decline has been driven by a deterioration of credit availability for 9 Table of Contents consumers and customers, increased borrowing rates for those who are able to secure lines of credit, slowdowns in the housing market, and rising unemployment rates in many countries where our business is concentrated. The impact from the convergence of these factors in a short timeframe has been significant, especially since the current slowdown is affecting all of our global markets with nearly equal severity. Global economic conditions, in fact, may continue to decline in the short term, and the depth and extent of this decline cannot be forecasted with certainty. Accordingly, we cannot project the timeframe within which economic conditions will begin to improve. To address these conditions, we have accelerated certain restructuring activities which involve the idling of underutilized assets and reductions in employment levels throughout the world. Notwithstanding the actions we have taken to address the economic contraction, further declines would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to currency exchange rate and other related risks. The compressor industry and our business in particular are characterized by global and regional markets that are served by manufacturing locations positioned throughout the world. An increasing portion of our manufacturing presence is in international locations. During 2008, approximately 81% of our compressor manufacturing activity took place outside the United States. Our Brazilian, European and Indian manufacturing operations delivered approximately 38%, 32% and 10% of total 2008 compressor sales respectively. As a result, our consolidated financial results are increasingly sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Because of our significant manufacturing and sales presence in Brazil, changes in the Brazilian real have been especially adverse to our results of operations when compared to prior periods; from January 1 to July 31, 2008, the Brazilian real strengthened by 11.6%, and in the following five months the real weakened by 49.2%. Our results of operations are substantially affected by several types of foreign exchange risk. One type is balance sheet re-measurement risk, which results when assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. This risk applies for our Brazilian operation, which denominates certain of its borrowings in U.S. dollars. The periodic re-measurement of these liabilities is recognized in the income statement. In the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the abrupt weakening of the Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar resulted in losses which were reported in our results of operations. Another significant risk for our business is transaction risk, which occurs when the foreign currency exchange rate changes between the date that a transaction is expected and when it is executed, such as collection of sales or purchase of goods. This risk affects our business adversely when foreign currencies strengthen against the dollar, which until recently has been the case for the last several years. We have developed strategies to mitigate or partially offset these impacts, primarily hedging against transactional exposure where the risk of loss is greatest. In particular, we have entered into foreign currency forward purchases to hedge the Brazilian export sales, some of which are denominated in U.S. dollars and some in euros. To a lesser extent, we have also entered into foreign currency forward purchases to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the euro and the Indian rupee. However, these hedging programs only reduce exposure to currency movements over the limited time frame of three to fifteen months. Additionally, if the currencies weaken against the dollar, any hedge contracts that have been entered into at higher rates result in losses to our income statement when they are settled. From January 1 to December 31, 2008, the euro weakened against the dollar by 4.5%, while the rupee weakened by 23.4%. This resulted in losses to our income statement for the settlement of currency contracts entered into in India. In general, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar is favorable to our overall results over time; however, the rapid and significant weakening of foreign currencies in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 caused balance sheet re-measurement losses to out-weigh the favorable impacts of net transactional gains in the period. Ultimately, long term changes in currency exchange 10 Table of Contents rates have lasting effects on the relative competitiveness of operations located in certain countries versus competitors located in different countries. We cannot assure that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, particularly over the long term. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with short-term protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. Material cost inflation could adversely affect our results of operations. The most significant inflationary impacts to the business have been the prices of copper and steel, both major cost components of compressors. Copper increased by over 30% from the beginning of 2007 to July 2008, before declining precipitously. Including the impact of hedging activities, commodity costs in 2008 were unfavorable when compared to 2007 by $23.1 million. As of December 31, 2008, we held approximately 69% of our total projected copper requirements for 2009 in the form of forward purchase contracts and futures, which will provide us with substantial (though not total) protection from price increases during the year but also will detract from our ability to benefit from price decreases. The cost for the types of steel utilized in our products escalated in a manner similar to copper in 2007 and 2008, but as of December 31, 2008 had not yet experienced a similar decline in certain markets, particularly in Brazil. We currently expect that prices for these types of steel will stabilize in 2009, and have the potential to deflate in a manner similar to other commodities. We are striving for greater productivity improvements and implementing increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in copper and steel as well as other base materials including aluminum, as well as other input costs including ocean freight, fuel, health care and insurance. We are also continuing to implement operational initiatives in order to continuously reduce our costs. We cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful to manage our costs or increase our productivity. Continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity may negatively impact our results of operations. We may not maintain our current level of liquidity. Upon completion of the divestitures of the business operations as previously discussed, we eliminated all our domestic debt. However, challenges remain with respect to our ability to maintain appropriate levels of liquidity, particularly those driven by global economic conditions and possibly currency exchange and commodity pricing as well. Given the current economic contraction and the corresponding drop in our sales volumes, we expect that we will generate a limited amount of cash until further restructuring activities are implemented or economic conditions improve. As part of our strategy to maintain sufficient liquidity, on March 20, 2008 we entered into a $50 million credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. As of December 31, 2008, we had no borrowings outstanding against this agreement, and our liquidity and availability were such that the covenants in the agreement did not apply. However, as a result of the interlocking relationship between availability and the fixed coverage charge ratio, borrowing ability under the agreement is 11 Table of Contents currently limited, and our actual capacity for borrowings under the agreement is approximately $0.2 million. Also, on February 19, 2009, the Herrick Foundation gave us notice that it planned to seek representation on the board by nominating a slate of four candidates for election as directors at our upcoming 2009 annual meeting of shareholders. The election of all four of the Herrick Foundation’s nominees to the board may constitute a “change in control” under the credit agreement. The occurrence of a change in control is an event of default under the agreement that, in addition to possibly triggering cross-default provisions under other agreements, would allow JPMorgan to terminate the agreement and terminate the stand-by letters of credit issued under the agreement to support our workers’ compensation obligations. Given current market conditions, there is a significant possibility that JPMorgan would not waive this event of default, or that we would not be able to secure a replacement credit facility with comparable terms — or on any terms at all. The loss of this source of liquidity could have unfavorable consequences. We expect to generate other sources of cash through activities such as the termination and reversion of our over-funded hourly pension plan and the resolution of a U.S. tax refund from our 2003 tax year. While we believe that these and other activities will produce adequate liquidity to implement our business strategy over a reasonable time horizon, there can be no assurance that such improvements will ultimately be adequate if economic conditions continue to deteriorate. In addition, while our business dispositions have improved our liquidity, each of the sale agreements provide for certain retained liabilities or indemnities, including liabilities that relate to environmental issues and product warranties. While we currently believe we have adequately provided for such contingent liabilities, future events could result in the recognition of additional liabilities that could consume available liquidity and management attention. A change in control could result in significant additional expense and loss of critical management personnel. As discussed in the preceding risk factor, the Herrick Foundation has given us notice that it plans to nominate a slate of four candidates for election as directors at the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders. The election of all four of the Herrick Foundation’s nominees to the board would be a “change of control” under the employment agreement and retention letter of our President and CEO, Ed Buker. If, following a change of control, Mr. Buker resigns for good reason or is terminated without cause (as those terms are defined in those agreements), he would be entitled to receive the same compensation as if he had terminated his employment for good reason, except that his cash payment would include two (rather than one and one-half) times his salary then in effect and two (rather than one) times his annual target bonus. This could cost us more than $5.0 million. While the election of all of the Herrick Foundation nominees would not be a change of control under our change of control or retention letters with other executive officers and members of senior management, it may increase the likelihood that additional payments will be required under those agreements if the executives’ employment terminates. One of the conditions triggering such payments is the departure of Mr. Buker from the company. Election of the Herrick nominees may make it more likely that we will experience turnover at the senior executive level, which would increase the likelihood, under the terms of the change of control or retention letters, that we would become obligated to make payments to remaining executives. In the case of the executive officers alone, this could cost us more than $1.7 million. 12 Table of Contents Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. We compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, noise levels, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources; if our products do not meet or exceed the attributes of our competitor’s offerings, we could be at a disadvantage in the affected product lines. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, we operate in environments where worldwide productive capacities exceed global demand and customers and competitors are establishing new productive capacities in low cost countries, including China. These trends have resulted in the need for us to restructure our operations by removing excess capacities, lowering our cost of purchased inputs and shifting productive capacities to low cost countries in order to improve our overall cost structure, restore margins and improve our competitive position in our major markets. There is no guarantee that these initiatives, which have included plant closures, headcount reductions, expanded operations in low-cost countries (including China and India) and global sourcing initiatives, will be successful in setting the stage for improvement in profitability in the future. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. Our business exposes us to potential litigation, such as product liability suits that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products. We are also potentially exposed to litigation related to securities law, corporate governance issues, or other types of business disputes. These claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. As we self-insure a portion of product liability claims, an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim or series of successful claims could materially and adversely affect our product reputation and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. As is further discussed in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” we are one of several companies involved in investigations into possible anti-competitive practices in the compressor industry. While we have entered into conditional amnesty agreements under which we do not expect to be subject to criminal prosecution with respect to the investigation, we are not exempt from civil litigation. As of the date of this report, several civil suits had been filed, and additional suits may be forthcoming. Even a successful defense against these claims could result in significant legal costs, and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to political, regulatory, economic, and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. Sales outside of North America, including export sales from North American businesses, accounted for approximately 79% of our net sales in 2008. Further, certain of our businesses obtain raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; 13 Table of Contents • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; • the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; • the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries; and • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. Our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our operations and products are subject to extensive environmental laws and energy regulations. Our plants and operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. These regulations can vary widely across the countries in which we do business. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure that we will not be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing, previously divested, or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination and the amount of such liability could be material. In addition, governmental regulations affect the types of refrigerants that may be utilized in our products, and this global scrutiny continues to evolve over time. We have continued to address these changes in regulation by approving and releasing new models that meet governmental and consumer requirements. We also strive to have our products meet requirements for energy efficiency, which can vary substantially across the global communities in which we sell our products. Future legislation may require substantial levels of expenditure to meet industry requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 7,800 persons worldwide. The majority of the approximately 6,850 people we employ in foreign locations are represented by national trade unions. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters, we cannot assure you that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by our customers could result in slow-downs or closures at vehicle assembly plants where our engines are installed. If one or more of 14 Table of Contents our customers experience a material work stoppage, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased or unexpected product warranty claims could adversely affect us. We provide our customers a warranty on products we manufacture. Our warranty generally provides that products will be free from defects for periods ranging from 12 months to 36 months. If a product fails to comply with the warranty, we may be obligated, at our expense, to correct any defect by repairing or replacing the defective product. Although we maintain warranty reserves in an amount based primarily on the number of units shipped and on historical and anticipated warranty claims, there can be no assurance that future warranty claims will follow historical patterns or that we can accurately anticipate the level of future warranty claims. An increase in the rate of warranty claims or the occurrence of unexpected warranty claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 