Risk Factors” of this report. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Tejon Ranch Co. (the Company, Tejon, we, us and our) is a diversified real estate development and agribusiness company committed to responsibly using our land and resources to meet the housing, employment, and lifestyle needs of Californians and create value for our shareholders. Current operations consist of land planning and entitlement, land development, commercial sales and leasing, leasing of land for mineral royalties, grazing leases, income portfolio management, and farming. Our prime asset is approximately 270,000 acres of contiguous, largely undeveloped land that, at its most southerly border, is 60 miles north of Los Angeles and, at its most northerly border, is 15 miles east of Bakersfield. We create value by securing entitlements for our land, facilitating infrastructure development, strategic land planning, development, and conservation. We are involved in several joint ventures, which facilitate the development of portions of our land. We are also actively engaged in land planning, land entitlement, and conservation projects. In October 2009, our Tejon Mountain Village, or TMV, community received unanimous entitlement approval from the Kern County Board of Supervisors. In November 2010, Kern County Superior Court Judge Kenneth Twissleman ruled in favor of the Company, its development partner DMB Associates, Inc. and Kern County when he found that Kern County had properly analyzed and evaluated the environmental effects of TMV. Judge Twissleman rejected claims made by the Center for Biological Diversity, or CBD, along with other parties, that our environmental impact report or EIR for TMV was inadequate. The findings of Judge Twissleman were appealed by CBD on February 8, 2011. The oral argument for CBD’s appeal is scheduled on March 21, 2012. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for a further discussion. The Board of Supervisors approval and the Court’s affirmation allows the Company to proceed with its proposed development of TMV as a premier resort community, however, we generally believe it is more prudent to have lawsuits settled or finally determined before beginning development. 3 Table of Contents The following table shows the revenues from continuing operations, segment profits and identifiable assets of each of our continuing industry segments for the last three years: FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS (Amounts in thousands of dollars) 2011 2010 2009 Revenues Real estate—commercial/industrial $ 25,952 $ 16,656 $ 14,996 Real estate—resort/residential 16,134 281 272 Farming 21,012 18,576 12,983 Segment revenues 63,098 35,513 28,251 Investment income 1,260 979 1,640 Other income 98 61 45 Total revenues $ 64,456 $ 36,553 $ 29,936 Segment Profits (Losses) and Net Income (Loss) Real estate—commercial/industrial $ 12,522 $ 5,997 $ 2,527 Real estate—resort/residential 12,192 (2,808 ) (4,171 ) Farming 8,437 7,662 1,179 Segment profits (1) 33,151 10,851 (465 ) Investment income 1,260 979 1,640 Other income 98 61 45 Interest expense — (9 ) (70 ) Corporate expenses (12,277 ) (5,612 ) (7,311 ) Operating income (loss) before equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures 22,232 6,270 (6,161 ) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures 916 541 374 Income (loss) before income taxes 23,148 6,811 (5,787 ) Income tax provision (benefit) 7,367 2,852 (2,354 ) Net income (loss) 15,781 3,959 (3,433 ) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (113 ) (216 ) (56 ) Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 15,894 $ 4,175 $ (3,377 ) Identifiable Assets by Segment (2) Real estate—commercial/industrial $ 57,745 $ 51,053 $ 59,652 Real estate—resort/residential 110,147 98,829 86,553 Farming 24,326 26,366 23,375 Corporate 129,758 111,843 65,164 Total assets $ 321,976 $ 288,091 $ 234,744 (1) Segment profits are revenues from operations less operating expenses, excluding investment income and expense, corporate expenses, equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, and income taxes. (2) Identifiable Assets by Segment include both assets directly identified with those operations and an allocable share of jointly used assets. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, refundable and deferred income taxes, and land, buildings and improvements. 4 Table of Contents Real Estate Operations Our real estate operations consist of the following activities: land planning and entitlement, real estate development, commercial sales and leasing, income portfolio management and conservation. Interstate 5, one of the nation’s most heavily traveled freeways, brings approximately 90,000 vehicles per day through our land, which includes 16 miles of Interstate 5 frontage on each side of the freeway and the commercial land surrounding four interchanges. The strategic plan for real estate focuses on development opportunities along the Interstate 5 corridor, which includes the Tejon Ranch Commerce Center, or TRCC, the Centennial master planned community on our land in Los Angeles County, or Centennial and our resort and residential community called TMV. TRCC includes development west of Interstate 5, TRCC-West, and development east of Interstate 5, TRCC-East. TRCC-West has been in development for approximately eleven years while development began at TRCC-East in 2009. We are continuing, under the terms of the Conservation Agreement, we entered into with five of the major environmental organizations in June 2008, with our development of TMV, Centennial, and the “Grapevine” area of Interstate 5 located in Kern County, which includes TRCC-East and West. In February 2011, we completed the sale of conservation easements over 62,000 acres of our land with the Tejon Ranch Conservancy, or Conservancy, for $15,750,000. Portions of the 62,000 acres are suitable for development in the long-term future, but the conservation easements preclude us from pursuing any long-term development on the 62,000 acres. We do however retain fee ownership of the 62,000 acres and will continue to operate current revenue generating activities including farming, cattle grazing, oil and gas, and other mineral exploration on portions of the acreage. Our real estate activities within our commercial/industrial segment include: entitling, planning, and permitting of land for development; construction of infrastructure; the construction of pre-leased buildings; the construction of buildings to be leased or sold; and the sale of land to third parties for their own development. The commercial/industrial segment also includes activities related to communications leases, oil and mineral royalties, and ancillary land uses such as grazing leases, landscape maintenance fees, and game management revenues. Our real estate operations within our resort/residential segment at this time include land entitlement, land planning and pre-construction engineering, and land stewardship activities. Commercial/Industrial Construction: During 2011 we finalized the water filtration system infrastructure at TRCC-East and completed the expansion of the Laval Road interchange bridge that serves both TRCC-East and West. Leasing: Within our commercial/industrial segment, we lease land to various types of tenants. We currently lease land to three auto service stations with convenience stores, seven fast-food operations, two full-service restaurants, one motel, an antique shop, and a United States Postal Service facility. In addition, the Company leases several microwave repeater locations, radio and cellular transmitter sites, and fiber optic cable routes; 32 acres of land to Calpine Generating Company, or Calpine, for an electric power plant; and one office building in Rancho Santa Fe, California. We lease certain portions of our land to oil companies for the exploration and production of oil and gas, but do not ourselves engage in any such exploratory or extractive activities. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 7,269 acres were committed to producing oil and gas leases from which the operators produced and sold approximately 738,000 barrels of oil and 433,000 MCF (each MCF being 1,000 cubic feet) of dry gas during 2011. Our share of production, based upon average royalty rates during the last three years, has been 258, 176, 5 Table of Contents and 190, barrels of oil per day for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Approximately 256 producing oil wells were located on the leased land as of December 31, 2011. Royalty rates on our leases averaged 12.95% in 2011. During 2011, oil activities increased as oil royalty tenants drilled 20 new oil wells and overall production increased 242,000 barrels over the previous year. Our largest oil producing tenant, Occidental Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries, drilled 14 of the new wells in 2011. We also signed a development and exploration lease during 2011 with Sojitz Energy Venture, Inc. covering approximately 50,000 acres in the San Joaquin Valley portion of the Company’s land. Estimates of oil and gas reserves on our properties are unknown to us. We do not make such estimates, and our lessees do not make information concerning reserves available to us. We have approximately 2,000 acres under lease to National Cement Company of California, Inc., or “National,” for the purpose of manufacturing Portland cement from limestone deposits found on the leased acreage. National owns and operates a cement manufacturing plant on our property with a capacity of approximately 1,000,000 tons of cement per year. The amount of payment that we receive under the lease is based upon shipments from the cement plant, which increased slightly in 2011 compared to 2010. The continued low level of in shipments is the direct result of reduced construction activity due to the depressed economy and real estate market. The term of this lease expires in 2026, but National has options to extend the term for successive periods of 20 and 19 years. Proceedings under environmental laws relating to the cement plant are in process. The Company is indemnified by the current and former tenants and at this time we have no cost related to the issues at the cement plant. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for a further discussion. The sale and leasing of commercial/industrial real estate is very competitive, with competition coming from numerous and varied sources around California. Our ability to attract tenants due to preferential pricing has been minimized by the current economic climate due to price-cutting by our most direct regional competitors in the Inland Empire region of Southern California and areas north of us in the San Joaquin Valley of California. During 2011, as vacancies rates began to decline in the Inland Empire region of Southern California, we did begin to see improved activity within our development and in our ability to compete once again with preferential pricing. Please refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information regarding our 2011 commercial/industrial activity. Joint Ventures: We are also involved in multiple joint ventures with several partners. Our TA/Petro joint venture owns and operates two travel and truck stop facilities, and also operates three separate gas stations with convenience stores within TRCC-West and TRCC-East. We are involved in two joint ventures with Rockefeller Development Group, the Five West Parcel LLC that owns a 606,000 square foot building in TRCC-West, which is fully leased, and the 18-19 West LLC, which owns 61.5 acres of land for future development within TRCC-West. Resort/Residential Our resort/residential segment activities include land planning and entitlement and land stewardship and conservation activities. We have two major resort/residential communities within this segment, one of which, TMV, received county entitlement approvals in 2009 that were reaffirmed by the Kern County Superior Court in November 2010, and one of which, the Centennial community, is still progressing through the entitlement process in Los Angeles County. The entitlement process precedes the regulatory approvals necessary for land development and routinely takes several years to complete. The Conservation Agreement that we signed in 2008 is designed to minimize the opposition from environmental groups to these projects and eliminate or reduce the time spent in litigation once governmental approvals are received. Litigation by environmental groups has been a primary cause of delay and loss of financial value for real estate development projects in California. 6 Table of Contents Centennial community: The Centennial development is a large master-planned community development encompassing approximately 11,000 acres of our land within Los Angeles County. Upon completion of Centennial, it is estimated that the community will include approximately 23,000 homes. The community will also incorporate business districts, schools, retail and entertainment centers, medical facilities and other commercial office and light industrial businesses that, when complete, would create a substantial number of jobs. Centennial is being developed by Centennial Founders, LLC, a consolidated joint venture in which we have a 68.06% ownership interest as of December 31, 2011. Our partners in this joint venture are Pardee Homes, Lewis Investment Company and Standard Pacific Corp. In 2009, our partners in Centennial Founders LLC elected to become non-contributing capital partners due to the financial difficulties facing homebuilders and the downturn within the real estate industry. As a result, the Company began funding 100% of Centennial Founders LLC’s current operations, thereby diluting each other partner’s percentage ownership. This change in funding occurred in July 2009. Prior to that time the Company was contributing 50% of the capital funds necessary to pursue entitlement and development efforts undertaken by this joint venture. We expect to continue funding all entitlement and pre-development activities for the near future. Since the initial submittal of our administrative-level EIR with respect to the Centennial community to Los Angeles County, we have continued to receive feedback from the Los Angeles Planning Department and have submitted several revisions of our administrative EIR as we work towards the public filing of our EIR and final approval. We cannot estimate when or if this approval will be granted, but the process is being actively pursued. In addition to the EIR, we have submitted a variety of other reports required as part of the entitlement process including our specific plan, tentative tract maps, geological reports, traffic reports, and water supply assessment reports. Centennial is envisioned to be an ecologically friendly and commercially viable development. Our plan is for a sustainable program that provides for the needs of the community while protecting the environment and will be achieved through our continuing focus on responsible use of limited resources and progressive construction design. We recognize the need to balance expensive “Green Program” certifications with the practicality of investing those same funds in environmentally sound building elements. Tejon Mountain Village community: In addition to the Centennial community project, we are currently engaged in the development of TMV. TMV is envisioned as an exclusive, very low-density, resort-based community that will provide owners and guests with a wide variety of recreational opportunities, lodging and spa facilities, world-class golf facilities, a range of housing options, and other exclusive services and amenities that are designed to distinguish TMV as the resort of choice for the Southern California market. TMV is being developed by TMV LLC, an unconsolidated joint venture in which we have a 50% ownership interest. Our partner in this joint venture is DMB Pacific Partners II, a subsidiary of DMB Associates Inc., or DMB, which is a leading resort/recreational planned community developer. Under the joint venture agreement, the parties have agreed to secure all entitlements and all necessary regulatory approvals, to master plan, develop and sell parcels and homes to end users, and to develop and own, sell or joint venture commercial properties, hotels, and golf course sites in TMV. In October 2009, TMV received unanimous entitlement approval from the Kern County Board of Supervisors, which allows the Company to commence development activities. This approval began a thirty-day period in which a California Environmental Quality Act, or CEQA lawsuit could be filed against Kern County. These lawsuits routinely allege inadequacy of the EIR. As expected, a group of parties led by CBD filed a suit in November 2009 alleging inadequacy of the EIR. In November 2010, Kern County Superior Court Judge Kenneth Twissleman ruled in favor of the Company, its development partner, and Kern County when he found that Kern County had properly analyzed and evaluated the environmental effects of TMV. Judge Twissleman rejected claims made by CBD that our environmental impact report for TMV was inadequate. The findings of Judge Twissleman were appealed by CBD on February 8, 2011. It is difficult to predict the ultimate timing of the settlement of the appeal or the eventual outcome of the appeal. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for a further discussion. 7 Table of Contents Because our residential housing communities, Centennial and TMV, are both in the entitlement phase, they have not been directly impacted by the downturn in the housing market over the last few years. However, we cannot project the condition of the housing market or the stability of the mortgage industry if and when we have secured full entitlement for our projects, or when these projects move into their development and marketing phases. These factors can impact the timing of beginning of development. The greatest competition for the Centennial community will come from California developments in the Santa Clarita Valley, Lancaster, Palmdale, and Bakersfield. TMV will compete generally for discretionary dollars that consumers will allocate to recreation and second homes, so its competition will range over a greater area and range of projects. Farming Operations In the San Joaquin Valley, we farm permanent crops including the following acreage: wine grapes—1,640; almonds—1,520; and pistachios—1,055. We manage the farming of alfalfa and forage mix on 775 acres in the Antelope Valley and we periodically lease 750 acres of land that is used for the growing of vegetables. We sell our farm commodities to several commercial buyers. As a producer of these commodities, we are in direct competition with other producers within the United States and throughout the world. Prices we receive for our commodities are determined by total industry production and demand levels. We attempt to improve price margins by producing high quality crops through proven cultural practices and by obtaining better prices through marketing arrangements with handlers. Sales of our grape and pistachio crops typically occur in the third and fourth quarter of the calendar year, while sales of our almond crop also typically occur in the third and fourth quarter of the calendar year, but can occur up to a year or more after the crop is harvested. In 2011, we sold 51% of our grape crop to one winery, 36% to a second winery and the remainder to two other customers. These sales are under long-term contracts ranging from one to thirteen years. In 2011, our almonds were sold to various commercial buyers, with the two largest buyers accounting for 57% and 25%, respectively of our almond revenues. In 2011, the majority of our pistachios were sold to two customers, purchasing approximately 78% and 20% of the crop, respectively. We do not believe that we would be adversely affected by the loss of any or all of these large buyers because of the markets for these commodities, the large number of buyers that would be available to us, and the fact that the prices for these commodities do not vary based on the identity of the buyer or the size of the contract. Nut and grape crop markets are particularly sensitive to the size of each year’s world crop and the demand for those crops. Large crops in California and abroad can rapidly depress prices. Crop prices, especially almonds, are also adversely affected by a strong U.S. dollar which makes U.S. exports more expensive and decreases demand for the products we produce. The relatively weak value of the dollar over the last few years has helped to maintain strong almond prices in the U.S. and in overseas markets. Our water entitlement for 2011 available from the California State Water Project, or “SWP,” when combined with supplemental water, was adequate for our farming needs. The State Department of Water Resources, or “DWR,” has announced its early 2012 estimated water supply delivery at 60% of full entitlement. We anticipate that this current year allocation will be sufficient for our 2012 farming needs. It is possible that when the current SWP allocation is combined with other available water resources, such as groundwater and surface sources, the Company may be able to bank additional water in 2012 for future use. See discussion of water contract entitlement and long-term outlook for water supply under Item 2, “Properties.” 8 Table of Contents General Environmental Regulation Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations including laws relating to water, air, solid waste and hazardous substances. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with these requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not incur costs, penalties, and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property or natural resources, resulting from our operations. We also expect continued legislation and regulatory development in the area of climate change and green house gases. It is unclear as of this date how any such developments will affect our business. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the interpretation of these laws or regulations, might require expenditures in the future. Customers In 2011 and 2010, Stockdale Oil and Gas, a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corporation, an oil and gas leaseholder, accounted for 13% and 11%, respectively, of our revenues from continuing operations. In 2009, Calpine, a tenant who leases and operates a power plant on our land, accounted for 12% of our revenues from continuing operations. Organization Tejon Ranch Co. is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1987 to succeed the business operated as a California corporation since 1936. Employees At December 31, 2011, we had 145 full-time employees. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Reports We make available free of charge through our Internet website, www.tejonranch.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or to be furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. We also make available on our website our corporate governance guidelines, charters of our key Board of Directors’ Committees (audit, compensation, nominating and corporate governance, and real estate), and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers, and Employees. These items are also available in printed copy upon request. We intend to disclose future amendments to certain provisions of our Code, or waivers of such provisions granted to executive officers and directors, on the web site within four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver. Any document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC’s internet site address at http://www.sec.gov. Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 9 Table of Contents Executive Officers of Registrant The following table shows each of our executive officers and the offices held as of February 29, 2012, the period the offices have been held, and the age of the executive officer. All of such officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Name Office Held since Age Robert A. Stine President and Chief 1996 65 Executive Officer, Director Dennis J. Atkinson Senior Vice President, Agriculture 1998 61 Joseph E. Drew Senior Vice President, Real Estate 2001 69 Allen E. Lyda Senior Vice President, 1990 54 Chief Financial Officer Kathleen J. Perkinson Senior Vice President, 2008 52 Natural Resources and Stewardship Greg Tobias Vice President, General Counsel 2011 47 A description of present and prior positions with us, and business experience for the past five years is given below. Mr. Stine has been employed by us since May 1996, serving as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a Director. Mr. Atkinson has been employed by us since July 1998, serving as Vice President, Agriculture, until 2008 when he was promoted to Senior Vice President. Mr. Drew has been employed by us since March 2001, serving until December 2003 as Vice President, Commercial and Industrial Development, when he was promoted to his current position. Mr. Lyda has been employed by us since 1990, serving as Vice President, Finance and Treasurer. He was elected Assistant Secretary in 1995 and Chief Financial Officer in 1999. Mr. Lyda was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2008. Ms. Perkinson has been employed by us since July 2007, serving as Vice President, Community Development until September 2008 when she was promoted to her current position. She became an executive officer in December 2008. Prior to joining the Company she served for ten years as Managing Director of the Miller Family Companies where she managed all aspects of a 2,350 unit master planned community. Mr. Tobias has been employed by the Company since November 2011, serving as Vice President and General Counsel. For the five years prior to joining the Company, Mr. Tobias acted as Associate General Counsel for Olympia Land Corporation in Las Vegas, Nevada, where he was responsible for a wide variety of corporate and legal matters. Olympia is a privately held development company whose assets include retail, office, resort and gaming properties. Olympia is best known for developing the master planned golf course community of Southern Highlands. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our strategy, focused on more aggressive development of our land, involves significant risk and could result in operating losses. We are involved in a cyclical industry and are affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. The real estate development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, including: • Employment levels • Availability of financing • Interest rates • Consumer confidence • Demand for the developed product, whether residential or industrial • Supply of similar product, whether residential or industrial The process of development of a project begins and financial and other resources are committed long before a real estate project comes to market, which could occur at a time when the real estate market is depressed. It is also possible in a rural area like ours that no market for the project will develop as projected. A downturn in national or regional economic conditions could continue to adversely impact our business. The collapse of the housing market together with the crisis in the credit markets, resulted in a recession in the national economy. At such times, potential home buyer and commercial real estate customers often defer or avoid real estate transactions due the substantial costs involved and uncertainties in the economic environment. Our future real estate sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations could suffer as a result. Our business is especially sensitive to economic conditions in California, where all of our land is located. While there have been signs of improvement in the economy, California as one of the hardest hit states in the recent economic downturn, could take longer to recover than the rest of the nation. A prolonged downturn will continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Higher interest rates and lack of available financing can have significant impacts on the real estate industry. Higher interest rates generally impact the real estate industry by making it harder for buyers to qualify for financing, which can lead to a decrease in the demand for residential, commercial or industrial sites. Any decrease in demand will negatively impact our proposed developments. Lack of available credit to finance real estate purchases can also negatively impact demand. Any downturn in the economy or consumer confidence can also be expected to result in reduced housing demand and slower industrial development, which would negatively impact the demand for land we are developing. We are subject to various land use regulations and require governmental approvals and permits for our developments that could be denied. In planning and developing our land, we are subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, infrastructure design, subdivision of land, and construction. All of our new developments require amending existing general plan and zoning designations, so it is possible that our entitlement applications could be denied. In addition, the zoning that ultimately is approved could include density provisions that would limit the number of homes and other structures that could be built within the boundaries of a particular area, which could adversely impact the financial returns from a given project. In addition, many states, cities and counties (including neighboring Ventura County) have in the past approved various “slow growth” or “urban limit line” measures. If that were to occur in the jurisdictions governing the Company’s land use, our future real estate development activities could be significantly adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Third-party litigation could increase the time and cost of our development efforts. The land use approval processes we must follow to ultimately develop our projects have become increasingly complex. Moreover, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge the proposed plans and approvals. As a result, the prospect of third-party challenges to planned real estate developments provides additional uncertainties in real estate development planning and entitlements. Third-party challenges in the form of litigation could result in denial of the right to develop, or would, by their nature, adversely affect the length of time and the cost required to obtain the necessary approvals. In addition, adverse decisions arising from any litigation would increase the costs and length of time to obtain ultimate approval of a project and could adversely affect the design, scope, plans and profitability of a project. We are subject to environmental regulations and opposition from environmental groups that could cause delays and increase the costs of our development efforts or preclude such development entirely. Environmental laws that apply to a given site can vary greatly according to the site’s location and condition, present and former uses of the site, and the presence or absence of sensitive elements like wetlands and endangered species. Federal and state environmental laws also govern the construction and operation of our projects and require compliance with various environmental regulations, including analysis of the environmental impact of our projects and evaluation of our reduction in the projects’ carbon footprint and greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, cause us to incur additional costs for compliance, mitigation and processing land use applications, or preclude development in specific areas. In addition, in California, third parties have the ability to file litigation challenging the approval of a project, which they usually do by alleging inadequate disclosure and mitigation of the environmental impacts of the project. While we have worked with representatives of various environmental interests and wildlife agencies to minimize and mitigate the impacts of our planned projects, certain groups opposed to development have made clear they intend to oppose our projects vigorously, so litigation challenging their approval is expected. The issues most commonly cited in opponents’ public comments include the poor air quality of the San Joaquin Valley air basin, potential impacts of projects on the California condor and other species of concern, the potential for our lands to function as wildlife movement corridors, potential impacts of our projects on traffic and air quality in Los Angeles County, emissions of greenhouse gases, water availability and criticism of proposed development in rural areas as being “sprawl”. In addition, California has a specific statutory and regulatory scheme intended to reduce green house gas emissions in the state and efforts to enact federal legislation to address climate change concerns could require further reductions in our projects’ carbon footprint in the future. Constriction of the credit markets could limit our ability to access capital and increase our cost of capital. During the recent economic downturn, we have relied principally on positive operating cash flow, cash and investments, and equity offerings to meet current working capital needs, entitlement investment, and investment within our developments. While there have been signs of improvement in the economy, the ongoing economic and real estate downturn has reduced other sources of liquidity available to the industry, and may continue to limit these sources of liquidity in the future and potentially increase our costs of capital. Until governmental entitlements are received, we will have a limited inventory of real estate. Each of our four current and planned real estate projects, TRCC–West and East, Centennial and TMV, involve obtaining various governmental permits and/or entitlements. A delay in obtaining governmental approvals could lead to additional costs related to these developments and potentially lost opportunities for the sale of lots to developers and land users. We are in competition with several other developments for customers and residents. Within our real estate activities, we are in direct competition for customers with other industrial sites in Northern, Central, and Southern California. We are also in competition with other highway interchange locations using Interstate 5 and State Route 99 for commercial leasing opportunities. Once they receive all necessary approvals and entitlements, Centennial will ultimately compete with other residential housing options in the region, such as developments in the Santa Clarita Valley, Lancaster, Palmdale, Bakersfield, and TMV will compete generally for discretionary dollars that consumers will allocate to recreation and second homes, so its competition will include a greater area and range of projects. Intense competition may decrease our sales and harm our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our developable land is concentrated entirely in California. All of our developable land is in California and our business is especially sensitive to the economic conditions within California, Any adverse change in the economic climate of California, which is currently in an economic downturn, or our regions of that state, and any adverse change in the political or regulatory climate of California, or the counties where our land is located could adversely affect our real estate development activities. There is no consensus as to when the economy will begin to improve or how long it could take the economy to recover from the continuing economic downturn. Ultimately, our ability to sell or lease lots may decline as a result of weak economic conditions or restrictive regulations. Increases in taxes or government fees could increase our cost, and adverse changes in tax laws could reduce demand for homes in our future residential communities. Increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space, and road improvements, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, any changes to income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate tax deductions or incentives to homeowners, such as a change limiting the deductibility of real estate taxes or interest on home mortgages, could make housing less affordable or otherwise reduce the demand for housing, which in turn could reduce future sales. If we experience shortages or increased costs of labor and supplies or other circumstances beyond our control, there could be delays or increased costs within our industrial development, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to develop our current industrial development may be adversely affected by circumstances beyond our control including: work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people; changes in laws relating to union organizing activity; and shortages, delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices of building materials. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or could increase the cost of, developing infrastructure and buildings within our industrial development. If any of the above happens, our operating results could be harmed. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We currently depend heavily on the services of Robert A. Stine, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of Mr. Stine’s services or that of other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or our ability to pursue land development. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Our business model is very dependent on transactions with strategic partners. We may not be able to successfully (1) attract desirable strategic partners; (2) complete agreements with strategic partners; and/or (3) manage relationships with strategic partners going forward, any of which could adversely affect our business. For several years a key to our development and value creation strategies has been the use of joint ventures and strategic relationships. These joint venture partners bring development experience, industry expertise, financial resources, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets. A complicating factor in any joint venture is that strategic partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors related to our business. These competing interests lead to the difficult challenges of successfully managing the relationship and communication between strategic partners and monitoring the execution of the partnership plan. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation or financial position of the strategic partner deteriorates. If we cannot successfully execute transactions with strategic partners, our business could be adversely affected. Only a limited market exists for our Common Stock, which could lead to price volatility. The limited trading market for our Common Stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our Common Stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our Common Stock. 13 Table of Contents Concentrated ownership of our Common Stock creates a risk of sudden change in our share price. As of March 6, 2012, directors and members of our executive management team beneficially owned or controlled approximately 35% of our Common Stock. Investors who purchase our Common Stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our Common Stock. The sale by any of our large shareholders of a significant portion of that shareholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, the registration of any significant amount of additional shares of our Common Stock will have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our Common Stock and any such increase may cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. Decreases in the market value of our investments in marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We have significant amount of funds invested in marketable securities the market value of which is subject to changes from period to period. Decreases in the market value of our marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Inflation can have a significant adverse effect on our operations. Inflation can have a major impact on our farming operations. The farming operations are most affected by escalating costs, unpredictable revenues and very high irrigation water costs. High fixed water costs related to our farm lands will continue to adversely affect earnings. Prices received for many of our products are dependent upon prevailing market conditions and commodity prices. Therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately predict revenue, just as we cannot pass on cost increases caused by general inflation, except to the extent reflected in market conditions and commodity prices. Within our real estate operations, inflation can result in increased costs of construction and can reduce operating margins as increases in operating costs result in deteriorating margins on long term fixed lease agreements. A prolonged downturn in the real estate market or continued instability in the mortgage and commercial real estate financing industry, could have an adverse effect on our real estate business. Our residential housing projects, Centennial and TMV, are currently in the entitlement phase, and therefore they have not been directly impacted by the current downturn in the housing market or the mortgage lending crisis. However, if the downturn in the real estate market or the instability in the mortgage and commercial real estate financing industry exists at the time these projects move into their development and marketing phases, our resort/residential business could be adversely affected. Excess supply of homes available due to foreclosures or the expectation of deflation in housing prices could also have a negative impact on our ability to sell our inventory when it becomes available. The inability of potential commercial/industrial clients to get adequate financing for the expansion of their businesses could lead to reduced lease revenues and sales of land within our industrial development. We may encounter other risks that could impact our ability to develop our land. We may also encounter other difficulties in developing our land, including: • Difficulty in securing adequate water resources for future developments; • Water delivery and water availability continues to be a long-term concern within California. Any limitation of delivery of SWP water and the absence of available alternatives during drought periods could potentially cause permanent damage to orchards and vineyards. • Natural risks, such as geological and soil problems, earthquakes, fire, heavy rains and flooding, and heavy winds; • Shortages of qualified trades people; • Reliance on local contractors, who may be inadequately capitalized; • Shortages of materials; and • Increases in the cost of materials. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 