Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued) Changes in the Spending Priorities of the Federal Government In fiscal year 2006, approximately 47% of the Company's revenues were related to products purchased by the U.S. Government. The Company's business depends upon continued federal government expenditures on defense, aerospace, and other programs that the Company supports. In addition, foreign military sales are affected by U.S. Government regulations. There can be no assurance that the U.S. defense and military budget will continue to grow, and/or funds be allocated to the types of products that the Company manufactures. In addition, the terms of defense contracts with the U.S. Government generally permit the government to terminate such contracts, with or without cause, at any time. The Company has not experienced any such terminations in the last five years. Any unexpected termination of a significant contract with the U.S. Government can adversely affect the future financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Airline Industry Concerns Several of the Company's aviation customers filed for bankruptcy protection during fiscal years 2006 and 2005. The aviation industry continues to struggle with the cost of security and higher fuel prices, and the Company's commercial sales have declined over the last three years. Additional bankruptcy filings and the continued financial difficulties in the aviation industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company's operating results and financial condition. New Products The successful operation of the Company depends on our ability to anticipate market needs and develop and introduce new products and product enhancements that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. The Company must continue to develop leading-edge products and introduce them to the market quickly in order to be successful. The Company's failure to produce technologically competitive products in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis could harm the business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial Results As more fully discussed under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"), the Company is in a transitional phase between the end of its long-term AN/APM-480 contract and the commencement of deliveries under its new multi-year AN/USM-708 contract. Furthermore, sales of its marine systems have not grown as expected. As a result, consolidated revenues have declined since fiscal year 2003, and the Company has sustained losses in the last two fiscal years. As discussed in the MD&A, the Company has adopted a transitional profit improvement plan, and is actively bidding for new contracts. Production deliveries under its new AN/USM-708 multi-year contract do not commence until calendar year 2008. During the last three years working capital has increased to approximately $4.3 million, and cash has increased to approximately $1.9 million. See MD&A for further discussion. 7 