Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us. 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Teleflex serves a wide variety of global customers by designing, manufacturing, and distributing specialty-engineered products. A diversified company distinguished by a significant presence in healthcare, Teleflex is a leading global supplier of disposable and single use medical products for critical care and surgical applications. Our medical products include devices used in critical care applications, surgical instruments, and cardiac assist devices for hospitals and healthcare providers, and instruments and devices delivered to medical device manufacturers. The company also serves the aerospace and commercial markets with engineered products and services designed to serve specialty or niche applications. Our aerospace products include engine repair products and services and cargo-handling systems and equipment used in commercial aviation. Our commercial products include marine driver controls, and engine assemblies and drive parts, power and fuel management systems and rigging products and services for commercial industries. For more than 60 years, we have provided specialty-engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements. We have grown through an active program of development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and through acquisitions of companies with related market, technology or industry expertise. We serve a diverse customer base in over 140 countries through our own operations and through local direct sales and distribution networks. We have been focused on creating a portfolio of businesses that provides greater consistency of performance, improved profitability and sustainable growth. To accomplish this we have changed the composition of our portfolio of businesses to reduce cyclicality, improve margins and focus our resources on the development of our core businesses and carefully selected acquisitions. We are focused on achieving consistent and sustainable growth through our internal growth initiatives which include the development of new products, expansion of market share, moving existing products into new geographies, and through selected acquisitions which enhance or expedite our development initiatives and our ability to grow market share. The Teleflex portfolio of businesses changed significantly in 2007 with acquisitions in all three business segments and significant divestitures in both Commercial and Aerospace. During 2007, in our Medical Segment, we completed the acquisition of Arrow International, a medical products company with annual revenues of over $500 million, which significantly expanded the Segment. We also completed the acquisition of a small orthopedic device manufacturer to expand our capability to serve medical device manufacturers. In our Commercial segment, we acquired a rigging services business with annual revenues of approximately $25 million. At the end of the fiscal year, we completed the divestiture of our automotive and industrial businesses with 2007 revenues of over $860 million, significantly reducing the size of our Commercial segment. In our Aerospace segment, we acquired a cargo equipment business with annual revenues of approximately $55 million and divested a precision — machined components business with approximately $130 million in annual revenues. Our Business Segments We organize our business into three business segments — Medical, Aerospace, and Commercial. For 2007, the percentages of our consolidated net revenues represented by our segments were as follows: Medical — 54 percent, Aerospace — 23 percent and Commercial — 23 percent. As a result of the Arrow acquisition, we anticipate that the Medical Segment will account for a larger percentage of revenue going forward. Further detail and additional information regarding our segments and geographic areas is presented in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Discontinued Operations At the end of 2007, the Company completed the sale of its business units that design and manufacture automotive and industrial driver controls, motion systems and fluid handling systems to Kongsberg Automotive Holding ASA for $560 million in cash. On June 29, 2007, we completed the sale of a precision-machined components business in our Aerospace segment for approximately $134 million in cash. In 2006, we sold a small medical business. In 2005, we completed the sale of our automotive pedal systems business, sold a European medical product sterilization business, and completed the sale of a surface-engineering/specialty coatings business. These businesses met the criteria for reporting discontinued operations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144. “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” In compliance with SFAS No. 144, the Company has reported results of operations, cash flows and gains (losses) on the disposition of these businesses as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding divestiture activity and accounting for discontinued operations. The following business segment and product category information reflects businesses in continuing operations as of December 31, 2007. Business Segment Overview Medical The businesses in our Medical Segment design, manufacture and distribute medical devices primarily used in critical care, surgical applications and cardiac care. Additionally, the company designs, manufactures and supplies devices and instruments for medical device manufacturers. We are focused on providing disposable or single use medical products for critical care and surgery that enhance patient outcomes by providing products that are less invasive, reduce infection and improve patient safety. Our products are largely sold and distributed to hospitals and healthcare providers and are most widely used in the acute care setting for a range of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and in general and specialty surgical applications. Major manufacturing operations are located in Czech Republic, Germany, Malaysia, Mexico and the United States. Approximately 50 percent of our segment revenues are derived from customers outside the United States. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we acquired Arrow International, a leading global supplier of catheter-based medical technology products used for vascular access and cardiac care. This acquisition significantly expanded our disposable medical product offerings for critical care, enhanced our global footprint and added to our research and development capabilities. Disposable Medical Products for Critical Care: This is the largest product category in the Medical Segment, representing 60 percent of segment revenues in 2007. Disposable medical products are used in a wide range of critical care procedures for vascular access, respiratory care, anesthesia and airway management, treatment of urologic conditions, as well as other specialty procedures. Disposable medical products for critical care are generally marketed under the brand names of Arrow, Rüsch, HudsonRCI, Gibeck and Sheridan. The large majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to the hospital/healthcare provider market, with a smaller percentage sold to alternate sites. Vascular Access Products: Our vascular access products are generally catheter-based products used in a variety of clinical procedures to facilitate multiple critical care therapies including the administration of intravenous medications and other therapies and the measurement of blood pressure and taking of blood samples through a single puncture site. 4 Vascular access catheters and related devices consist principally of central venous access catheters such as the following: the Arrow-Howe’stm Multi-Lumen Catheter, a catheter equipped with three or four channels, or lumens; double-and single-lumen catheters, which are designed for use in a variety of clinical procedures; percutaneous sheath introducers, which are used as a means for inserting cardiovascular and other catheterization devices into the vascular system during critical care procedures. We also provide a range of peripherally inserted central catheters, which are soft, flexible catheters inserted in the upper arm and advanced into the superior vena cava and are accessed for various types of intravenous medications and therapies, and radial artery catheters, which are used for measuring arterial blood pressure and taking blood samples. Our offerings include a pressure injectable peripherally inserted catheter which addresses the therapeutic need for a catheter that can withstand the higher pressures required by the injection of contrast media for CT scans. Our vascular access products also include specialty catheters and related products used in a range of procedures and include percutaneous thrombolytic devices, which are designed for clearance of thrombosed hemodialysis grafts in chronic hemodialysis patients; and hemodialysis access catheters, including the Cannon® Catheter, which is used to facilitate dialysis treatment. Many of our vascular access catheters are treated with the ARROWg+ard®,or ARROWg+ard Blue Plus®, antiseptic surface treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related infection. ARROWg+ard Blue Plus, is a newer, longer lasting formulation of ARROWg+ard and provides antimicrobial treatment of the interior lumens and hubs of each catheter. As part of our ongoing efforts to meet physicians’ needs for safety and management of risk of infection in the hospital setting, we sell a Maximal Barrier Protection central venous access kit, which includes a full body drape, a catheter treated with the ARROWg+ard antimicrobial technology, and other accessories. This kit addresses recent guidelines for reducing catheter-related bloodstream infections promulgated by the Centers for Disease Control and the Institute for Healthcare Improvement’s “100,000 Lives” initiative. Related products include custom tubing sets used to connect central venous catheters to blood pressure monitoring devices and drug infusion systems, and the Arrow InView portable ultrasound machine designed to support placement and administration of vascular access products. Respiratory Care: Respiratory care products principally consist of devices used in oxygen therapy, aerosol therapy, and humidification for the mechanically ventilated patient. We offer an extensive range of aerosol therapy products, from the AquaPak Large Volume Nebulizer, the MicroMist and Up-Draft II Small Volume Nebulizer to the Voldyne Incentive Spirometer. We are also a global provider of oxygen supplies, offering a broad range of products to safely and comfortably deliver oxygen therapy. These include nasal cannulas, oxygen supply tubing, oxygen masks and bubble humidifiers. The full range of these products are used in a variety of clinical settings including hospitals, long-term care facilities, rehabilitation centers, and patients’ homes to treat respiratory ailments such as chronic lung disease, pneumonia, cystic fibrosis, and asthma. Our ventilator accessories humidify and deliver gases from a ventilator to the patient. Over time, we have evolved our technology to meet changing clinical requirements and applications. Our latest innovations in this product category include, the Gibeck Humid-Flo and the ConchaTherm, which support the complex clinical needs of critical care patients. The Gibeck Humid-Flo Heat and Moisture Exchanger is designed to deliver medicated aerosol treatments to mechanically ventilated patients. The HME remains in-line during treatments, allowing treatments to be delivered without breaking the ventilator circuit and interrupting ventilation, a key strategy in the prevention of ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP), a leading hospital-acquired infection. The ConchTherm Neptune is part of a complete system designed to heat and humidify respiratory gases delivered to patients. The system is used with ventilators, continuous flow systems, oxygen diluters and blenders, adjustable nebulizer adapters for aerosol therapy or nonflammable anesthesia gases to help maintain patient body temperature. 5 Anesthesia and Airway Management: Anesthesiologists depend on our highly recognized brands of Hudson, Sheridan and Rusch products that include endotracheal tubes, laryngeal masks, airways, and face masks to deliver anesthetic agents and oxygen. To assist in the placement of endotracheal tubes, we provide a comprehensive and unique line of laryngoscope blades and handles, including standard halogen and fiber optic light sources. Fiber optic light sources offer a high intensity, cool white light without generating the same level of heat that comes from standard halogen bulbs. Regional anesthesia products include peripheral nerve blocks. Nerve blocks provide pain relief after surgical procedures and help clinicians better manage each patient’s pain. We offer the first stimulating continuous nerve block catheter, the Arrow StimuCath, which confirms the positive placement of the catheter next to the nerve. The Flex Tip Plus continuous epidural catheter features a soft, flexible tip that helps reduce the incidence of complications, such as transient paresthesia and inadvertent cannulation of blood vessels or the dura, while improving the clinician’s ability to thread the catheter into the epidural space. Our Arrow TheraCath® epidural catheter, with high compression strength for direction-ability and enhanced radiopacity, was designed for pain management procedures where increased steer-ability is important. Additional integral components create a range of standard and custom procedural kits. Urology: Our urology product line provides bladder management for patients in a range of clinical settings. These products consist principally of Foley catheters and accessories, external catheters, intermittent catheters, suprapubic products, endourology products and products for urethral access. The largest percentage of urology products are sold to hospitals in European and Asian markets with a smaller percentage of sales in North America. Our urology products are also sold for use in home health and to alternate site providers. The Rusch MMG Closed System intermittent catheter is clinically proven to reduce Urinary Tract Infections, a leading cause of death in spinal cord injury patients. Designed using the bladder’s natural pressure, the Rusch BellyBag is a urine collection bag allowing patients with indwelling catheters freedom of movement, and personal discretion. Surgical Instruments and Medical Devices: Products in this category represented 25 percent of Medical segment revenues in 2007. Our surgical instrument and medical device products include: ligation and closure products including appliers, clips, and sutures used in a variety of surgical procedures, hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures, access ports used in minimally invasive surgical procedures including robotic surgery, and fluid management products used for chest drainage. In addition, we provide instrument management services. We market surgical instruments and medical devices under the Deknatel, Pleur-evac, Pilling, Taut and Weck brand names. In 2007, we introduced a number of new products in this category, including the Pleur-evac Mini Sahara chest drainage product, which is a patented system for thoracic, cardiovascular, trauma and critical care. It features calibrated, high-suction control with a visual indicator, safe tip-over prevention, a patented patient air leak meter, complete positive and negative pressure controls, and a proprietary unit for pneumonectomy. In 2008, we plan to introduce the Hem-o-lok Small clip, a proprietary device with clinical advantages, which can seal vessels as small as 1-3 mm, and a new access port for minimally invasive surgery. Devices for Original Equipment Manufacturers: Specialty devices sold to medical device manufacturers represented 13 percent of Medical segment revenues in 2007. We provide design and prototyping, testing, fabrication and manufacturing services to medical device manufacturers. Products in this category include custom-designed and manufactured specialty instruments for cardiovascular and orthopedic procedures, specialty sutures, microcatheters, and introducers. Our brand names include TFX OEM, Beere, Deknatel, KMedic, and SMD. Access, procedural and closure devices include custom extrusion products of PTFE and other fluropolymers, braid reinforced medical tubing, and catheter fabrication. We also supply custom suture and medical fibers. Orthopedic surgical instrumentation includes precision machined orthopedic and spinal surgical instruments. 6 During 2007, we acquired a provider of fixation devices sold under the SMD brand and used primarily for orthopedic procedures, expanding our OEM product line. Cardiac Care Devices: Cardiac care products accounted for approximately 2 percent of revenues in fiscal 2007. These products include cardiac assist products, such as intra-aortic balloon (IAB) pumps and catheters, which are used primarily to augment temporarily the pumping capability of the heart following cardiac surgery, serious heart attack or balloon angioplasty. Our IAB products include the AutoCattm 2 WAVE IAB pump and associated LightWAVEtm catheter system, which utilize fiber optic pressure-sensing catheter instrumentation and provides total automation of the pumping process for the broadest range of patients, including those with severely arrhythmic heartbeats. The following table sets forth revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005 by significant product category for the Medical segment. 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in thousands) Medical Products for Critical Care $ 625,485 $ 485,924 $ 469,152 Surgical Instruments and Devices $ 258,258 $ 234,964 $ 231,415 Devices for Original Equipment Manufacturers $ 138,142 $ 137,788 $ 130,571 The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2007 for the Medical segment. Hospitals/Healthcare Providers 76 % Medical Device Manufacturers 15 % Home Health 9 % Markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns in the worldwide healthcare markets. Our products are sold through direct sales or distribution in 128 countries. The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for 2007 derived from the major geographic areas we serve. 2007 North America 51 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 37 % Asia, Latin America 12 % Backlog: Most of our medical products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks with a longer order time for products sold to medical device manufacturers. Therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. Sales and Marketing: Medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. Aerospace Our Aerospace segment businesses provide engine repair products and services for flight turbine engines and cargo handling systems and equipment for wide body and narrow body aircraft. Engine repair products and services are provided for all major engine suppliers and we serve many of the world’s leading commercial airlines. Our wide body cargo handling systems are installed on a range of aircraft platforms and our customers include many of the world’s leading airlines. Sales to customers in commercial aviation markets represent more than 95 percent of revenues in this segment. Markets for these products are generally influenced by spending patterns in the commercial aviation 7 markets, cargo market trends, flight hours, and age and type of engines in use. Major locations for manufacturing and service are located in England, Germany, Norway, Singapore and the United States. Engine Repair Products and Services: The largest single product category in the Aerospace segment, repair products and services represented 56 percent of segment revenues in 2007. This category includes engine repair technologies and services primarily for critical components of flight turbines, including fan blades and airfoils. We utilize advanced reprofiling and adaptive-machining techniques to improve efficiency of aircraft engine performance and reduce turnaround time for maintenance and repairs. Our repair products and services business is conducted through a consolidated, fifty-one percent owned venture with GE Aircraft Engines, called Airfoil Technologies International (ATI). In 2007, ATI signed a joint venture and management agreement with Snecma Services to expand the range of repair services provided to our customers. Cargo-handling Systems and Equipment: Products in this category represented 44 percent of Aerospace segment revenues in 2007. Our cargo-handling systems include on-board cargo-handling systems for wide-body aircraft, cargo-loading systems for narrow body aircraft, actuators, cargo containers, aftermarket spare parts and repair services. Marketed under the Telair International brand name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft original equipment manufacturers or to airlines and air freight carriers as “buyer furnished equipment” for original installations or as retrofits for existing equipment. Cargo-handling systems require a high degree of engineering sophistication and are often custom-designed. In addition to the design and manufacture of cargo systems, we provide customers with aftermarket spare parts and repair services for their Telair systems. In addition, we design, manufacture and repair cargo containers and we also manufacture and repair components for our systems and other related aircraft controls, including canopy and door actuators, cargo winches and flight controls. In November 2007, we acquired Nordisk Aviation Products expanding our customer base and global manufacturing and service capacity for cargo equipment. Cargo containers are marketed under Nordisk Aviation Products and Telair names to commercial airlines and to freight companies. The following table sets forth revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005 by product category for the Aerospace segment. 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in thousands) Engine Repair Products and Services $ 253,975 $ 250,519 $ 241,532 Cargo-handling Systems and Equipment $ 197,813 $ 154,853 $ 125,298 The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2007 for the Aerospace segment. Commercial Aviation 97 % Military, Industrial and Other 3 % Backlog: As of December 31, 2007, our backlog of firm orders for our Aerospace segment was $141 million, of which we expect approximately 83 percent to be filled in 2008. Our backlog for our Aerospace segment on December 31, 2006 was $173 million. Sales and Marketing: Generally, products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own field representatives. Commercial Our Commercial segment businesses principally design, manufacture and distribute driver controls and engine and drive assemblies for the marine market, power and fuel systems for truck, rail, automotive and industrial vehicles and rigging products and services. Our products are used in a range of markets including: 8 recreational marine, heavy truck, bus, industrial vehicles, rail, oil and gas, marine transportation and industrial. Major manufacturing operations are located in Canada, Europe, Singapore, and the United States. Marine Driver Controls and Engine Assemblies and Drive Parts: This is the largest single product category in the Commercial segment, representing 54 percent of Commercial segment revenues in 2007. Products in this category include: control cables, mechanical and hydraulic steering, throttle controls, instrumentation and engine drive parts. We are a leading global provider of both mechanical and hydraulic steering systems for recreational boats. We are also a leading distributor of engine assemblies and drive parts. Our marine products are sold to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and to the aftermarket through distributors, dealers and retail outlets. Our major product brands include Teleflex Marine, SeaStar, BayStar, and Sierra. Power and Fuel Systems: Products in this category represented 27 percent of Commercial segment revenues in 2007. Our major products in this category include auxiliary power units used for power in heavy-duty trucks and locomotives, climate control systems used in trucks, buses and other industrial vehicles, and components and systems for the use of alternative fuels in industrial vehicles and passenger cars. These products generally address the need for greater fuel efficiency, reduced emissions, and access to mobile power. Our major product brands in this category are ComfortPro, Proheat, and Teleflex GFI. Rigging Products and Services: Products in this category represented 19 percent of Commercial segment revenues in 2007. Products include heavy-duty cables, hoisting and rigging equipment used in oil drilling, marine transportation and other industrial markets. We also help our customers meet new legislation and safety regulations for moorings. Teleflex Commercial enhanced our offerings this year when we acquired Southern Wire Corporation, a prominent wholesale provider of rigging services. The following table sets forth revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005 by product category for the Commercial segment. 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in thousands) Marine Driver Controls and Engine and Drive Parts $ 240,092 $ 229,250 $ 225,540 Power and Fuel Systems $ 119,026 $ 129,116 $ 90,127 Rigging Products and Services $ 82,077 $ 68,395 $ 48,237 The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2007 for the Commercial segment. Recreational Marine 48 % Truck and Rail 15 % Automotive and Industrial Vehicle 18 % Other Industrial 19 % Backlog: Standard Commercial segment products are typically shipped between a few days and three months after receipt of order. Therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. Sales and Marketing: The majority of our Commercial segment products are sold through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. Marine driver controls and engine and drive parts are sold directly to boat builders and engine manufacturers as well as through distributors, dealers and retail outlets to reach recreational boaters. Auxiliary power units are primarily sold in the North American truck market through an agreement with a distributor and to the rail market using a direct sales force. Fuel systems and components include custom applications sold directly to industrial equipment manufacturers and to the automotive aftermarket principally in Europe. Rigging products and services includes both a retail business and a wholesale business, both of which sell through a direct sales force. 9 Government Regulation Government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers utilizing our products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing, and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and license the operation of our repair stations. For more information, see “Risk Factors”. Competition Given the range and diversity of our products and markets, no one competitor offers competitive products for all the markets and customers that we serve. In general, all of our segments and product lines face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes, although the number of competitors in each market tends to be limited. We believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel, and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. Patents and Trademarks We own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. We also license various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. All capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. Although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the Teleflex brand and the Arrow brand, to be essential to the operation of our business. Suppliers and Materials Materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. We are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. Most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. Volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. We cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Seasonality Portions of our revenues, particularly in the Commercial and Medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Revenues in the marine aftermarket generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. Incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. Employees We employed approximately 14,000 full-time and temporary employees at December 31, 2007. Of these employees, approximately 4,400 were employed in the United States and 9,600 in countries outside of the United States. Less than 8 percent of our employees in the United States were covered by union contracts. We have government-mandated collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. 10 Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, proxy and information statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. You can access financial and other information in the Investors section of our website. The address is www.teleflex.com. We make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. The information on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. The reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. We are a Delaware corporation organized in 1943. Our executive offices are located at 155 South Limerick Road, Limerick, PA 19468. Our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The names and ages of all of our executive officers as of February 26, 2008 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: Name Age Positions and Offices with Company Jeffrey P. Black 48 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director Kevin K. Gordon 45 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Laurence G. Miller 53 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Vince Northfield 44 President — Commercial R. Ernest Waaser 51 President — Medical John Suddarth 48 President — Aerospace Mr. Black has been Chairman since May 2006, Chief Executive Officer since May 2002 and President since December 2000. He has been a Director since November 2002. Mr. Black was President of the Teleflex Industrial Group from July 2000 to December 2000 and President of Teleflex Fluid Systems from January 1999 to July 2000. Mr. Gordon has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2007. From June 2005 until March 2007, he was Senior Vice President — Corporate Development. From December 2000 to June 2005, Mr. Gordon was Vice President — Corporate Development. Prior to December 2000, Mr. Gordon was Director of Business Development. Mr. Miller has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since November 2004, following a 20-year career with Aramark Corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. From November 2001 until November 2004, he was Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel for the Food & Support Services division of Aramark. From June 1994 until November 2001, Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President and General Counsel for Aramark Uniform Services. Mr. Northfield has been the President of Teleflex Commercial since June 2005. From 2004 to 2005, Mr. Northfield was the President of Teleflex Automotive and the Vice President of Strategic Development. 11 Mr. Northfield held the position of Vice President of Strategic Development from 2001 to 2004. Prior to 2001, Mr. Northfield was Vice President and General Manager of North American operations of Morse Controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by Teleflex in 2001. Mr. Waaser has been the President of Teleflex Medical since October 2006. Prior to joining Teleflex, Mr. Waaser served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Hill-Rom, Inc., a manufacturer and provider of products and services for the healthcare industry, including patient room equipment, therapeutic wound and pulmonary care products, biomedical equipment services and communications systems, from 2001 to 2005. Prior to 2001, Mr. Waaser served as Senior Vice President of AGFA Corporation, a producer of analog and digital imaging products for medical, industrial, graphics and consumer applications. Mr. Suddarth has been the President of Teleflex Aerospace since July 2004. From 2003 to 2004, Mr. Suddarth was the President of Techsonic Industries Inc., a former subsidiary of Teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment which was divested in 2004. Mr. Suddarth was the Chief Operating Officer of AMF Bowling Products, Inc., a bowling equipment manufacturer, from 2001 to 2003. Prior to 2001, Mr. Suddarth was President of Morse Controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by Teleflex in 2001. Our officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors. Each officer serves at the pleasure of the Board until their respective successors have been elected. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to the following: We may not be able to successfully complete the integration of Arrow or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Arrow acquisition. The integration of Arrow into our Medical Segment involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. In particular, we may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to: • consolidating manufacturing and administrative functions; • complying with legal requirements applicable to certain aspects of the integration; • retaining key employees; • consolidating infrastructures and systems; • coordinating sales and marketing functions; • preserving our and Arrow’s customer, supplier and other important relationships; and • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. The success of the Arrow acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from successfully combining the businesses of Arrow and of Teleflex Medical in the time frame we anticipate. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Failure to successfully complete the integration of Arrow or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Arrow may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to resolve issues related to the FDA corporate warning letter issued to Arrow could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 On October 11, 2007, Arrow received a corporate warning letter from the FDA, which expresses concerns with Arrow’s quality systems, including complaint handling, corrective and preventive action, process and design validation and inspection and training procedures. While we are working with the FDA to resolve these issues, this work has required and will continue to require the dedication of significant internal and external resources. There can be no assurances regarding the length of time or cost it will take us to resolve these issues to the satisfaction of the FDA. In addition, if our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the FDA, we may have to devote additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the FDA may take further regulatory actions against us. These actions may include seizing our product inventory, obtaining a court injunction against further marketing of our products, assessing civil monetary penalties or imposing a consent decree on us, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial debt obligations that could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We incurred significant indebtedness to fund a portion of the consideration for our acquisition of Arrow. As of December 31, 2007, our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.7 billion. We will be required to use a significant portion of our operating cash flow to reduce our indebtedness over the next few years, resulting in a reduction of the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments. Our indebtedness may also subject us to greater vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates because a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. Our senior credit facility and agreements with the holders of our senior notes, which we refer to as our senior debt facilities, impose certain operating and financial covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur debt; • create liens; • consolidate, merge or dispose of assets; • make investments; • engage in acquisitions • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; and • enter into derivative agreements to manage exposure to changes in interest rates. In addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities require us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and in the event of a significant deterioration of our economic performance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior credit facilities. If we fail to maintain compliance with these covenants and cannot obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit under such facilities. If the lenders under the senior credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings and we are not able to obtain financing to satisfy this obligation, we likely would have to liquidate significant assets which nevertheless may not be sufficient to repay our borrowings. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. Although no material concentration of our manufacturing operations exists in any single country, we have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including operations conducted through entities that are not wholly-owned and other alliances. As of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2007, approximately 49% of our total fixed assets and 56% of our total revenues were attributable to products directly 13 distributed from our operations outside the U.S. Our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the U.S., including: • exchange controls and currency restrictions; • trade protection measures; • import or export requirements; • subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests; and • regional and national tenders (which may be exclusive). These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. Customers in our Medical Segment depend on third party reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide reimbursement or the reduction in levels of reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect our Medical Segment. Demand for some of our medical products is impacted by the reimbursement to our customers of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers in the countries where we do business. Internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. Other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. Without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for some of our medical products could be adversely impacted. We cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. Adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of this reimbursement could harm our business. In addition, as a result of their purchasing power, these payors often seek discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers. Our provision of such pricing concessions could negatively impact our revenues and product margins. Uncertainties regarding future healthcare policy, legislation and regulations, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in acceptable quantities at profitable prices. Foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. We expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency. When the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our U.S. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. Although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows in order to reduce the effects of this fluctuation, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. 14 Many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin content. We also use quantities of other commodities, including copper and zinc. Although we monitor our exposure to these commodity price increases as an integral part of our overall risk management program, volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to successfully develop new products could adversely affect our results. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products, particularly in the medical device industry, which is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances. This product development may require substantial investment by us. There can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: • identify viable new products; • obtain adequate intellectual property protection; • gain market acceptance of new products; or • successfully obtain regulatory approvals. Moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products could reduce our margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of these intellectual property rights is important, though not essential, to the future success of our business. In addition to relying on our patents, trademarks and copyrights, we rely on confidentiality agreements with employees and other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than ours or that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive harm that could adversely affect our business. We depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. The research and development of some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the development of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge, advice and input, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 In the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are a party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business. These lawsuits and claims include actions involving product liability, contracts, intellectual property, employment and environmental matters. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of these legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. Although the Company carries product liability insurance we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Much of our business is subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations. Numerous national and local government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses the operation of our repair stations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal of required licenses, prohibitions against exporting of products to countries outside the United States, importing products from manufacturing facilities outside the U.S., and civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under Medicaid or Medicare, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all, resulting in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs, which could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Medical Segment facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare pricing and fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil 16 sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: • the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; • emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and • the health and safety of our employees. These laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may be subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, in the future based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions and strategic alliances may not meet revenue or profit expectations. As part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. In this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of services. Approximately 6% of our manufacturing revenues are produced by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. It is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. Strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 