Risk Factors.” COMPETITION Medical Segment The medical devices industry is highly competitive. We compete with many companies, ranging from small start-up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than us with access to significant financial resources. Furthermore, new product development and technological change characterize the market in which we compete. We must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies for our Medical Segment businesses to remain competitive. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness. Aerospace and Commercial Segments The businesses within our Aerospace and Commercial segments generally face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes. We believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel, and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. Competitors of the businesses with our Aerospace Segment include Goodrich Corporation, AAR Corp and Driessen Aerospace Group. Competition for our Commercial business tends to be fragmented. SALES AND MARKETING Medical Segment Our medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. Aerospace and Commercial Segments Products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own field representatives and distributors. The majority of our Commercial Segment products are sold through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. Marine driver controls and engine and drive parts are sold directly to boat builders and engine manufacturers as well as through distributors, dealers and retail outlets to reach recreational boaters. Rigging products and services includes both a retail business and a wholesale business, both of which sell through a direct sales force. BACKLOG Medical Segment Most of our medical products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks, with longer order times for products sold to medical device manufacturers. Therefore, the backlog of our Medical Segment orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. 10 Aerospace Segment As of December 31, 2009, our backlog of firm orders for our Aerospace Segment was $45 million, of which we expect approximately 95 percent to be filled in 2010. Our backlog for our Aerospace Segment on December 31, 2008 was $68 million. Commercial Segment Standard Commercial Segment products are typically shipped between a few days and three months after receipt of order. Therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. We also license various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. All capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. Although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the Teleflex and Arrow brands, to be essential to the operation of our business. SUPPLIERS AND MATERIALS Materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. We are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. Most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. Volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. We cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We are engaged in both internal and external research and development in our Medical, Aerospace and Commercial segments. Nearly 80% of our research and development costs occur in our Medical business in connection with our efforts to bring innovative new products to the markets we serve, and to enhance the clinical value, ease of use, safety and reliability of our existing product lines. Our research and development efforts support our strategic objectives to provide safe and effective products that reduce infections, improve patient and clinician safety, enhance patient outcomes and enable less invasive procedures. Research and development in our Aerospace and Commercial businesses is focused on the development of lighter, more durable and more automated systems and products that facilitate cargo loading and containment on commercial aircraft and improve the performance of recreational boats. We also acquire or license products and technologies that are consistent with our strategic objectives and enhance our ability to provide a full range of product and service options to our customers. SEASONALITY Portions of our revenues, particularly in the Commercial and Medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Revenues in the marine aftermarket generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. Incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. 11 EMPLOYEES We employed approximately 12,700 full-time and temporary employees at December 31, 2009. Of these employees, approximately 3,900 were employed in the United States and 8,800 in countries outside of the United States. Less than 8% percent of our employees in the United States were covered by union contracts. We have government-mandated collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. INVESTOR INFORMATION We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, proxy statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. You can access financial and other information in the Investors section of our website which can be accessed at www.teleflex.com. We make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the SEC. The information on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. The reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. We are a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1943. Our executive offices are located at 155 South Limerick Road, Limerick, PA 19468. Our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The names and ages of all of our executive officers as of February 24, 2010 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: Name Age Positions and Offices with Company Jeffrey P. Black 50 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director Richard A. Meier 50 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Laurence G. Miller 55 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary R. Ernest Waaser 53 President — Medical John Suddarth 50 President — Aerospace and Commercial Vince Northfield 46 Executive Vice President, Global Operations — Medical Mr. Black has been Chairman since May 2006, Chief Executive Officer since May 2002 and President since December 2000. He has been a Director since November 2002. Mr. Black was President of the Teleflex Industrial Group from July 2000 to December 2000 and President of Teleflex Fluid Systems from January 1999 to July 2000. Mr. Meier joined Teleflex as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in January 2010. Prior to joining Teleflex, Mr. Meier held various executive-level positions with Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., a global ophthalmic medical device company, from April 2002 to May 2009. He most recently served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Advanced Medical Optics from November 2007 to May 2009. 12 Mr. Miller has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since February 2008. From November 2004 to February 2008, Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. From November 2001 until November 2004, he was Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel for the Food & Support Services division of Aramark Corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. Mr. Waaser has been the President of Teleflex Medical since October 2006. Prior to joining Teleflex, Mr. Waaser served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Hill-Rom, Inc., a manufacturer and provider of products and services for the healthcare industry, including patient room equipment, therapeutic wound and pulmonary care products, biomedical equipment services and communications systems, from 2001 to 2005. Mr. Suddarth has been the President of our Aerospace and Commercial segments since March 2009. From July 2004 to March 2009, Mr. Suddarth was the President of Teleflex Aerospace. From 2003 to 2004, Mr. Suddarth was the President of Techsonic Industries Inc., a former subsidiary of Teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment, which was divested in 2004. Mr. Northfield has been the Executive Vice President for Global Operations, Teleflex Medical since September 2008. From 2005 to 2008, Mr. Northfield was the President of Teleflex Commercial. From 2004 to 2005, Mr. Northfield was the President of Teleflex Automotive and the Vice President of Strategic Development. Mr. Northfield held the position of Vice President of Strategic Development from 2001 to 2004. Our officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors. Each officer serves at the pleasure of the Board until their respective successors have been elected. 13 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to the following: We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government health care reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry to fundamental changes. We anticipate that the current presidential administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of reducing health care costs and expanding access. The uncertainties regarding the final legislation and its implementation could continue to have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. Any legislation enacted could represent opportunities and challenges. The potential exists that Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement in a variety of health care settings could be negatively impacted. Additionally, proposals to tax the sale of medical device technologies are being considered in Congress. At this juncture in the legislative process, it is not possible to determine the final magnitude of the tax or its precise structure and implementation. However, should a medical device manufacturers’ tax be enacted into law, its impact, along with the impact of health care reform to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement as well as other aspects of the various reform plans to our industry, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. At this time, we cannot predict with certainty which, if any, health care reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on us. Customers in our Medical Segment depend on third party reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide reimbursement or the reduction in levels of reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect our Medical Segment. Demand for some of our medical products is affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients’ medical expenses in the countries where we do business. Internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. Other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. Without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for some of our medical products could be adversely affected. We cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. Adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of reimbursement could harm our business. In addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors often seek discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers. Our provision of such pricing concessions could negatively impact our revenues and product margins. Much of our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance; our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition Numerous national and local government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses for the operation of our repair stations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal of required licenses, prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from countries outside the United States. In addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under Medicaid or Medicare, could result from regulatory 14 violations. Any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. The regulatory approval process may result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Medical Segment facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. On October 11, 2007, Arrow International received a corporate warning letter from the FDA, which expresses concerns with Arrow’s quality systems, including complaint handling, corrective and preventive action, process and design validation and inspection and training procedures. While we are working with the FDA to resolve these issues, our efforts to address the issues raised in the warning letter have required and may continue to require the dedication of significant internal and external resources. There can be no assurance regarding the length of time or cost it will take us to resolve these issues to the satisfaction of the FDA. In addition, if our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the FDA, we may need to devote additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the FDA may take further regulatory actions against us. These actions may include seizing our product inventory, obtaining a court injunction against further marketing of our products, assessing civil monetary penalties or imposing a consent decree on us, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare pricing and fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: • the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; • emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and • the health and safety of our employees. These laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may become subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. We have disclosed operational strategies and initiatives. These strategies include making significant investments to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. If we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our 15 strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. In this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions, associated with announced restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. Over the past few years we have announced several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including significant realignments of our businesses, employee terminations and product rationalizations. While we have started to realize the efficiencies of these actions, these activities may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective. Our failure to successfully develop new products could adversely affect our results. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances. In addition, while our products for the aerospace and commercial industries generally have longer life cycles, many of those products require changes in design or other enhancements to meet the evolving needs of our customers. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products. Our product development efforts may require substantial investment by us. There can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: • identify viable new products; • obtain adequate intellectual property protection; • gain market acceptance of new products; or • successfully obtain regulatory approvals. Moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could reduce our revenues and margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, recall and other claims that may be brought against us. Our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. In particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. Many of these products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time, and component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, the patient. In addition, our products for the 16 aerospace and commercial industries are used in potentially hazardous environments. Although we carry product liability insurance we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety, and we may experience lost sales and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have substantial debt obligations that could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.2 billion. We will be required to use a significant portion of our operating cash flow to reduce our indebtedness over the next few years. As a result, cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and dividends may be limited. Our indebtedness may also subject us to greater vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates because a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. Our senior credit facility and agreements with the holders of our senior notes, which we refer to below as our senior debt facilities, impose certain operating and financial covenants that could limit our ability to, among other things: • incur debt; • create liens; • consolidate, merge or dispose of assets; • make investments; • engage in acquisitions • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; and • enter into derivative agreements to manage exposure to changes in interest rates. In addition, the terms of our senior debt facilities require us to comply with a number of covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios, which are described in more detail in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that, in the event of a significant deterioration of our operating results, we will be able to satisfy those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior debt facilities. If we fail to maintain compliance with these covenants and cannot obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior debt facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior debt facilities to be immediately due and payable and 17 terminate all commitments to extend further credit under the facilities. If the lenders under the senior debt facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings and we are not able to obtain financing to enable repayment, we likely would have to liquidate significant assets, which nevertheless may not be sufficient to repay our borrowings. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. Although no material concentration of our manufacturing operations exists in any single country, we have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including operations conducted through entities that are not wholly-owned. As of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2009, approximately 41% of our total fixed assets and 46% of our total net revenues were attributable to products directly distributed from our operations outside the U.S. Our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the U.S., including: • exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; • trade protection measures; • import or export requirements; • subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. Foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. We expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency. When the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our U.S. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. Although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currency in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. Many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin content. We also use quantities of other commodities, including copper and zinc. Although we monitor our exposure to these commodity price increases as an integral part of our overall risk management program, volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 18 Fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect our results. As a company with significant operations outside of the U.S., we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, unfavorable results of tax audits and changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate, among other things, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. An interruption in our manufacturing operations may adversely affect our business. Many of our key products across all three of our business segments are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of our facilities, it may not be possible to timely manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, with respect to our Medical Segment, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components that are acceptable to us, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further adverse developments in general domestic and global economic conditions combined with a continuation of volatile global credit markets could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. The credit and capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption over the past year, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. These recessionary conditions have caused customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services. While recent indicators suggest modest improvement in the United States and global economy, we cannot predict the timing or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more normalized spending behaviors. If the recessionary conditions continue or worsen, our customers may terminate existing purchase orders or reduce the volume of products or services they purchase from us in the future. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. These types of actions by our suppliers could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial market conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. In addition, the amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet have increased significantly in recent years, primarily as a result of the acquisition of Arrow International in 2007. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 19 Our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of our intellectual property rights is important, though not essential, to the future success of our business. In addition to relying on our patents, trademarks and copyrights, we rely on confidentiality agreements with employees and other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than ours or that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive harm that could adversely affect our business. We depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. The research and development of some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the development of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge, advice and input, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of services. Approximately 13% of our net revenues are generated by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. It is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. Strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 