ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to the following: We face strong competition. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. The medical device industry is highly competitive. We compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us with access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources and that participate in numerous markets. In addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. Our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. There can 12 Table of Contents be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as our inability to: • identify viable new products; • obtain adequate intellectual property protection; • gain market acceptance of new products; or • successfully obtain regulatory approvals. In addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that are more effective than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could reduce our revenues and margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers depend on third party coverage and reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide coverage and reimbursement, or the reduction in levels of reimbursement, for our medical products could adversely affect us. The ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursements for our products is important to our business. Demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients’ medical expenses in the countries where we do business. Even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third party payors. Internationally, healthcare reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. Other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. Without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for many of our medical products could be adversely affected. We cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of coverage and reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. Adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of reimbursement could harm our business by altering the extent to which potential customers select our products and the prices they are willing to pay. In addition, as a result of their purchasing power and continually rising healthcare costs, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursement for medical technologies and procedures. These trends could compel us to reduce prices for our existing products and potential new products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims that may be brought against us and recalls, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, as a medical device company, we face an inherent risk of damage to our reputation if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. Our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. In particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. In addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. Product defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in injury to, or death of, the patient. Product liability and warranty claims often involve very large or 13 Table of Contents indeterminate amounts, including punitive damages. The magnitude of the potential losses relating to product liability lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time, and the cost to defend against any such litigation may be significant. We could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may voluntarily participate, or be required by regulatory authorities to participate, in a recall of that product. In the event of a recall, we may experience lost sales and be exposed to individual or class-action litigation claims. Moreover, our reputation could be damaged if one or more of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance. Our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and by comparable government agencies in other countries. The regulations govern the development, design, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. Moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal or suspension of required licenses, and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the United States. We could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. In addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under Medicaid or Medicare, could result from regulatory violations. Any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the United States, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we must first receive either 510(k) clearance or approval of a premarket approval, or PMA, application from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that our proposed product is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. The PMA pathway requires us to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in human clinical trials. Similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the United States also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. Furthermore, the FDA is currently reviewing its 510(k) clearance process, and may make the process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future 510(k) product clearance. The regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of product revenues, in substantial additional costs or in limitations on indicated uses of products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Even after a product has received marketing approval or clearance, such product approval or clearance by the FDA can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or integrity issues relating to the marketing application. Later discovery of violations of FDA requirements for medical devices could result in FDA enforcement actions, including warning letters, fines, delays or 14 Table of Contents suspensions of regulatory clearances, product seizures or recalls, injunctions, advisories or other field actions, and/or operating restrictions. Medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses. Promoting a device for an off-label use could result in government enforcement action. Furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the Quality System Regulation which requires testing, complaint handling, periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures. The FDA may also inspect for compliance with Medical Device Reporting Regulation, which requires manufacturers to submit reports to FDA of certain adverse events or malfunctions, and whether the facilities have submitted notifications of product recalls or other corrective actions in accordance with FDA regulations. Issues identified during such periodic inspections may result in warning letters, manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, product seizures or recalls, fines and delays in product manufacturing, and may require significant resources to resolve. We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and may experience business disruptions associated with restructuring, realignment, cost reduction and other strategic initiatives. Over the past few years we have implemented several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including the realignment of our North American organizational structure, facility consolidations and reductions in our workforce. While we have started to realize the efficiencies of these actions, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of these initiatives. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. We may also experience unanticipated difficulties or delays in implementing these measures, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. In addition, if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in significant additional charges. Moreover, if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove ineffective, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected. In addition, as part of our efforts to increase operating efficiencies, we plan to commence efforts in 2012 to begin transitioning our businesses to a single enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. In the event we encounter any problems with this transition, we could experience business disruptions, which could adversely affect customer relationships and divert the attention of management away from daily operations. In addition, any delays in the implementation of the ERP system could cause us to incur additional unexpected costs. Should we experience such difficulties, our business, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. Our strategies include making significant investments to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. If we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. In this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future 15 Table of Contents acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract, retain, train and develop key employees is important to our success. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to attract, retain, train and develop other key employees, including research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including: • the intense competition for skilled personnel in our industry; • fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions; • changes in our organizational structure; • restructuring initiatives we may engage in; • competitors’ hiring practices; and • the effectiveness of our compensation programs. If we are unable to attract, retain, train and develop such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we may experience difficulty in implementing our business strategy, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. An interruption in our manufacturing operations or our supply of raw materials may adversely affect our business. Many of our key products are manufactured at single locations, and the availability of alternate facilities is limited. If an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may not be able to timely manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, in the event of delays or cancellations in shipments of raw materials by our suppliers, we may not be able to timely manufacture the affected products at previous levels or at all. Furthermore, in the event of a disruption in our supply of certain components or materials, the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products, could delay or otherwise impair our ability to establish additional or replacement sources for these components or materials on a timely basis. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or our inability to secure suitable alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The ongoing volatility in the domestic and global financial markets, including the European sovereign debt crisis, combined with a continuation of constrained global credit markets could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including the economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets in recent years. In particular, the European sovereign debt crisis and its collateral effects on global financial markets may have a negative impact on our business. The credit and capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. These recessionary conditions have caused customers to reduce, delay or cancel purchases of our products and services. While recent economic indicators suggest improvement in the United States and global economy, we cannot predict the duration or extent of any economic recovery or the extent to which our customers will return to more normalized spending behaviors. If the recessionary conditions return, our customers may terminate existing purchase orders or reduce the volume of products or services they purchase from us in the future. 16 Table of Contents Adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for our accounts payable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. These types of actions could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, our customers, particularly in the European region, have extended or delayed payments for products and services already provided, which may lead to collectability concerns regarding our accounts receivable from these customers. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated losses which may occur when customers cannot make their required payments, we cannot be assured that we will continue to experience the same loss rate in the future given the volatility in the worldwide economy. If our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to address receivables we ultimately determine are uncollectible, we would be required to incur additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, our inability to collect outstanding receivables could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow from operations. In addition, the amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet have increased significantly in recent years, primarily as a result of the acquisition of ARROW International in 2007. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may result in future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not directly affect our liquidity but could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal healthcare programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully offering or paying remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or soliciting payment for such referrals, purchases, orders and recommendations; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), which prohibit schemes to defraud any healthcare benefit program and false statements relating to healthcare matters; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. 17 Table of Contents Further, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Healthcare Reform Act”), imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective March 30, 2013. Such information will be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning September 30, 2013. In addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to healthcare providers. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of compliance programs that include the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation for consulting and other services, and other remuneration to healthcare providers. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements and may result in increased compliance costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Health care reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business. Political, economic and regulatory developments have effected fundamental changes in the healthcare industry. The Healthcare Reform Act, enacted in March 2010, substantially changes the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers, encourages improvements in the quality of health care items and services, and significantly impacts the U.S. pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Among other things, the Healthcare Reform Act: • establishes a 2.3% deductible excise tax on sales of medical devices with respect to any entity that manufactures or imports certain medical devices offered for sale in the United States, beginning in 2013; • establishes a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; • implements payment system reforms, including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models, beginning on or before January 1, 2013; and • creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce Medicare spending if projected Medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. We currently estimate the impact of the 2.3% deductible excise tax to be approximately $15.0 million annually, beginning in 2013. However, we cannot predict at this time the full impact of the Healthcare Reform Act or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. Research and development for some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development and use of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge and advice, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. We have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations outside the United States in a number of countries, including Canada, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Ireland, Malaysia, Mexico, and Singapore. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 37% of our net property, plant and equipment was located outside the United States. In addition, in 2011, approximately 48% of our net revenues (based on business unit location) were derived from operations outside the United States. Approximately 71% of our full-time and temporary employees as of December 31, 2011 were employed in countries outside of the United States. Our international operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States, including: • exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; • trade protection measures; • potentially costly and burdensome import or export requirements; • laws and business practices that favor local companies; • changes in non-U.S. medical reimbursement policies and procedures; • subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that currently are or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; • substantial foreign tax liabilities, including potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings; • differing labor regulations; • additional U.S. and foreign government controls or regulations; • difficulties in the protection of intellectual property; and • unsettled political and economic conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of “off books” slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, these measures may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the United States, including the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury, as well as the laws and regulations administered by the Department of Commerce. These regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. While we train our employees and contractually obligate our distributors to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. Failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial penalties, including fines and enforcement actions and civil and criminal sanctions, the disgorgement of profits and the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. Foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. We expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency. When the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our U.S. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. Although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows denominated in non-functional currency in order to reduce the effects of currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. Many of our products have significant plastic resin content. We also use quantities of other commodities, such as aluminum. Increases in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers, particularly with respect to those products we sell under group purchase agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Increases in interest rates may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and suppliers and thus adversely affect their ability to buy our products and supply the components or raw materials we need, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax laws may adversely affect our results. As a company with significant operations outside of the United States, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax rate may, however, be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, unfavorable results of tax audits and changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could put us at a competitive disadvantage. We rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. Although we own numerous U.S. and foreign patents and have submitted numerous patent applications, we cannot assure you that any pending patent applications will issue, or that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In addition, we rely on confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and take other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology by competitors or other persons who may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. There is no guarantee that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach their confidentiality agreements with us, misappropriate proprietary information or copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than our own, which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology could adversely affect our business. Our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. If we are found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and to cease making or selling certain products. We may need to redesign some of our products or processes to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could be detrimental to our business. Other pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs and have an adverse effect on our business. We also are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business involving, among other things, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters, is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: • the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; • emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and 21 Table of Contents • the health and safety of our employees. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may become subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our consolidated results, and our ability to operate our business and our stock price. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Any failure on our part to remedy any identified control deficiencies, or any delays or errors in our financial reporting, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of products and services. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 4% of our net revenues were generated by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. It is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. Strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $959.8 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. It could also have significant effects on our business. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from exploiting business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes. 22 Table of Contents If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to: • refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof; • sell assets; • reduce or delay capital expenditures; or • seek to raise additional capital. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt agreements impose restrictions on our business, which could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions and may adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. The credit agreement governing our credit facilities and the indenture governing our 6.875% senior subordinated notes contain covenants that, among other things, impose significant restrictions on our business. The restrictions that these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our and their ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; • create liens; • pay dividends, make investments or make other restricted payments; • sell assets; • merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • permit layering of debt; • designate subsidiaries as unrestricted; and • use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets. In addition, the credit agreement governing our credit facilities also contains financial covenants. A breach of any covenants under any one or more of these debt agreements could result in a default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debts. In addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions. We may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, compliance with debt instruments, legal requirements and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. We cannot assure you that our cash dividend will not be reduced, or eliminated, in the future. 23 Table of Contents The contingent conversion features of our convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition. In August 2010, we issued $400 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes due 2017, which we refer to as the “Convertible Notes.” The Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock beginning on May 1, 2017, or earlier upon the satisfaction of certain conditions specified in the Convertible Note terms. See “Convertible Notes” under Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion regarding the conversion terms of the Convertible Notes. If the Convertible Notes become eligible for conversion and one or more holders elect to convert their notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than cash in lieu of any fractional shares), we would be required to settle a portion of or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, if the method of settlement effective during the period reflected in the financial statements is cash settlement or combination settlement, we would be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability in such financial statements, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our Convertible Notes may affect the value of our common stock. In connection with our issuance of the Convertible Notes, we entered into privately negotiated hedge transactions with third parties, which we refer to as the hedge counterparties. The hedge transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of our common stock that underlie the Convertible Notes and are expected to reduce our exposure to potential dilution with respect to our common stock and/or reduce our exposure to potential cash payments that may be required to be made by us upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. Separately, we also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions relating to the same number of shares of our common stock with the hedge counterparties with a strike price of $74.648, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, pursuant to which we may be obligated to issue shares of our common stock. The warrant transactions could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock or, if we so elect, obligate us to make cash payments to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on any expiration date of the warrants. In connection with establishing its initial hedges of the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions, the hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the Convertible Notes. The hedge counterparties (and/or their affiliates) may, in their sole discretion, with or without notice, modify their hedge positions from time to time (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to the conversion of the Convertible Notes) by entering into or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to shares of our common stock, and/or by purchasing or selling shares of our common stock or Convertible Notes in privately negotiated transactions and/or open market transactions. The effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. Each hedge counterparty is a financial institution or the affiliate of a financial institution, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more hedge counterparties may default under the Convertible Note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of each hedge counterparty will not be secured by any collateral. Recent global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or 24 Table of Contents financial difficulties of many financial institutions, including a bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its various affiliates. If a hedge counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the Convertible Note hedge transaction with that hedge counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in our stock market price and in volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by a hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the hedge counterparties. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, including in connection with conversions of our Convertible Notes, which could lower the price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding approximately 40.7 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 0.6 million were vested as of that date), approximately 0.3 million of restricted stock awards (which are expected to vest over the next three years) and approximately 23,000 shares of our common stock to be distributed from our deferred compensation plan. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and upon the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the Convertible Notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Furthermore, the conversion of some or all of the Convertible Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock issuable upon any conversion of the Convertible Notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock or conversion of the Convertible Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the number of shares in a series, the consideration, dividend rights, liquidation preferences, terms of redemption, conversion or exchange rights and voting rights, if any, of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or deterring a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our Convertible Notes could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us. Certain provisions in the Convertible Notes and the indenture governing the Convertible Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, if an 25 Table of Contents acquisition event constitutes a “fundamental change,” as defined in the indenture, holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. In addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a “make-whole fundamental change,” as defined in the indenture, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such acquisition event. In either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the Convertible Notes and the indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, and accordingly could reduce the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 