Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Teleflex Incorporated is a diversified industrial company specializing in the design, manufacture and distribution of specialty-engineered products. We serve a wide range of customers in niche segments of the commercial, medical and aerospace industries. Our products include: driver controls, motion controls, power and vehicle management systems and fluid management systems for commercial industries; disposable medical products, surgical instruments, medical devices and specialty devices for hospitals and healthcare providers; and repair products and services, precision-machined components and cargo-handling systems for commercial and military aviation as well as other industrial markets. For more than 60 years, we have grown by providing engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements. We have grown through an active program of development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and through acquisitions of companies that can add value with related market, technology or industry expertise. We serve a diverse customer base through operations in 24 countries and local direct sales and distribution networks. In 2005, products distributed from our operations in the United States accounted for 45 percent of revenues, and products distributed from our operations in other countries represented 55 percent of revenues. Our Business Segments We classify our business into three business segments — Commercial, Medical and Aerospace. For 2005, the percentages of our consolidated net revenues represented by our segments were as follows: Commercial — 47%; Medical — 33%; and Aerospace — 20%. Additional information regarding our segments is presented in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Commercial Our Commercial Segment businesses principally design, manufacture and distribute driver control, motion control, power and vehicle management and fluid management products and systems. Our products are used by a wide range of markets including the passenger car and light truck, marine, recreational, mobile power equipment, military, agricultural and construction vehicle, truck and bus and various other industrial equipment sectors. These products are provided through business operating units organized around geographical location, market knowledge and technical expertise. Major manufacturing operations are located in North America, Europe and Asia. Driver Controls: This is the largest single product category in the Commercial Segment, representing 47 percent of Commercial Segment revenues in 2005. Products in this category include: full manual and automatic gearshift systems, transmission guide controls, park-lock cables, control cables, mechanical and hydraulic steering, steering columns, throttle controls and industrial vehicle pedal systems. Our driver controls, for example, are used in passenger cars, boats, trucks, agricultural vehicles and recreational vehicles. We are a global supplier of manual and automatic gearshift systems and control cables for passenger cars and light trucks and a leading global provider of both mechanical and hydraulic steering systems for recreational boats. Motion Controls: Products in this category represented 24 percent of Commercial Segment revenues in 2005. Motion controls include: mechanical and electro-mechanical controls for seat-comfort, interior flexibility, movement and regulation of window, door, function and other safety controls and mobile power equipment controls and products for heavy-lift applications. While the largest portion of this category relates to seat and interior comfort and motion systems sold to automotive suppliers and industrial vehicle manufac- 3 Table of Contents turers, our motion systems also serve a wide range of other markets and applications. For example, we are a large supplier of safety cable and light-duty motion controls used in mobile power equipment, and our heavy-lift products, which include heavy-duty cables, hoisting and rigging equipment, are used in oil drilling and other industrial markets. Power and Vehicle Management Systems: Products in this category represented 18 percent of Commercial Segment revenues in 2005. Power and vehicle management systems include: mobile auxiliary power systems, fuel management systems and components, industrial actuation products and components, instrumentation and electronic controls for engine and vehicle management, diagnostics and monitoring. These products generally address the need for greater fuel efficiency, reduced emissions, mobile power and improved connectivity of engine and vehicle systems. Our major products in this category include mobile auxiliary power units used for power and climate control in heavy duty trucks, industrial vehicles and locomotives, instrumentation and electronic products for marine and industrial vehicles and components and systems for the use of alternative fuels in military, industrial and automotive applications. Fluid Management Systems: Products in this category represented 11 percent of Commercial Segment revenues in 2005. Fluid management products include premium-branded, custom-manufactured and bulk hose and related assemblies that are generally custom-designed and manufactured to address specific requirements for vapor permeation, durability and flexibility. Our fluid management products can be found in automobiles, recreational boats, remote sensing devices, high-purity food processing, underground fuel transfer, compressed natural gas applications and in a number of other industrial product and equipment applications. The largest percentage of fluid management systems are sold to automotive and industrial customers. The following table sets forth revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003 by significant product category for the Commercial Segment. 2005 2004 2003 (Dollars in thousands) Driver Controls $ 554,707 $ 570,410 $ 530,499 Motion Controls $ 283,698 $ 264,653 $ 222,566 Power and Vehicle Management Systems $ 222,951 $ 238,838 $ 222,943 No other product line for the Commercial Segment amounted to more than 10% of consolidated revenues for any period presented. The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2005 for the Commercial Segment. Automotive Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) 38 % Marine/ Recreational 19 % Automotive Suppliers 14 % Industrial Equipment and Other 12 % Truck and Bus 6 % Mobile Power Equipment 4 % Heavy Lift 4 % Agricultural/ Construction 3 % Backlog: As of December 25, 2005, our backlog of firm orders for our Commercial Segment was $257 million. This compares with $226 million as of December 26, 2004. Standard Commercial products are typically shipped between two weeks and three months after receipt of order. Therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. 4 Table of Contents Marketing: The majority of our Commercial Segment products are sold to original equipment manufacturers through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. We also market our marine products through dealers, distributors and retail outlets serving owners of recreational boats. Our mobile auxiliary power units and climate control units are marketed by our field sales force to dealers and owners of heavy duty trucks and industrial vehicles. Fuel systems and components include custom applications sold directly to military customers and to the automotive aftermarket in Europe. Medical Our Medical Segment businesses develop, manufacture and distribute disposable medical products, surgical instruments, medical devices and specialty devices for healthcare providers and medical equipment manufacturers. Our products are largely sold and distributed to hospitals and healthcare providers in a range of clinical settings. These products are provided through business operating units organized around product category, market knowledge, geographical location and technical expertise. Major manufacturing operations are located in North America, Europe and Asia. Markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns in the worldwide healthcare market. Disposable Medical Products: This is the largest product category in the Medical Segment, representing 61 percent of segment revenues in 2005. Our disposable medical products are generally used in the clinical specialty areas of anesthesia, respiratory care and urology. Anesthesia and respiratory care products include those used in airway management, oxygen administration and therapy, humidification and aerosol therapy. Urology products include: catheters, drain and irrigation supplies. Our products are marketed under the brand names of Rusch, HudsonRCI, Gibeck and Sheridan. The large majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to the hospital/ healthcare provider market with a smaller percentage to the home health market and medical device manufacturers. Surgical Instruments and Medical Devices: Products in this category represented 31 percent of Medical Segment revenues in 2005. Our surgical instrument and medical device products include: hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures, devices used in cardiovascular, orthopedic and general surgery and minimally-invasive diagnostic and therapeutic care. We also produce and market a range of ligation and closure products. In addition, we provide instrument management and sterilization services. We market surgical instruments and medical devices under the Deknatel, Pleur-evac, Pilling and Weck brand names. Specialty Devices: Specialty devices represented 8 percent of Medical Segment revenues in 2005. Products in this category include custom-designed and manufactured specialty instruments for cardiovascular and orthopedic procedures, specialty sutures, microcatheters, introducers and guidewires. We also design and manufacture specialty devices and instruments for industry leading medical device manufacturers and provide them with outsourcing services. Our brands include Beere, KMedic and Deknatel. Specialty devices are generally marketed to medical device manufacturers. The following table sets forth revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003 by significant product category for the Medical Segment. 2005 2004 2003 (Dollars in thousands) Disposable Medical Products $ 502,768 $ 427,888 $ 282,047 Surgical Instruments and Medical Devices $ 261,199 $ 256,389 $ 204,474 No other product line for the Medical Segment amounted to more than 10% of consolidated revenues for any period presented. 5 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2005 for the Medical Segment. Hospitals/ Healthcare Providers 74 % Medical Device Manufacturers 17 % Home Health 9 % Backlog: As of December 25, 2005, our backlog of firm orders for our Medical Segment was $65 million. This compares with $65 million as of December 26, 2004. Substantially all of the December 25, 2005 backlog will be filled in 2006. Most of our medical products are sold on orders calling for delivery within a few months. Therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. Marketing: Medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. Aerospace Our Aerospace Segment businesses provide repair products and services for flight and ground-based turbine engines; manufacture and distribute precision-machined components; and design, manufacture and market cargo-handling systems. These products require a high degree of engineering sophistication and are often custom-designed. They are provided through business operating units organized by market and technical expertise. Major operations are located in North America, Europe and Asia. Commercial aviation markets represent the majority percentage of revenues in this segment. Markets for these products are generally influenced by spending patterns in the commercial aviation and military markets. Repair Products and Services: The largest single product category in the Aerospace Segment, repair products and services represented 49 percent of segment revenues in 2005. This category includes repair technologies and services primarily for critical components of flight turbines, including fan blades and airfoils. We utilize advanced reprofiling and adaptive-machining techniques to improve efficiency of aircraft engine performance and reduce turnaround time for maintenance and repairs. Repair products and services are provided through service locations in North America, Europe and Asia. Our repair products and services business is conducted through a consolidated, but not wholly-owned, subsidiary called Airfoil Technologies International (ATI), whose product line serves many of the industry’s leading aircraft engine providers and a range of commercial airlines. Precision-Machined Components: Products in this category represented 26 percent of Aerospace Segment revenues in 2005. Our precision-machined components include: fan blades, compressor blades, cases, blisks and other components for military and commercial flight turbine engines and a range of custom-designed and manufactured products for industrial markets. The vast majority of our precision-machined components are sold to original equipment manufacturers of aircraft engines and for military applications, with a very small percentage of products sold to industrial markets. Cargo-handling Systems: Products in this category represented 25 percent of Aerospace Segment revenues in 2005. Our cargo-handling systems include on-board cargo-handling systems for wide-body and narrow-body aircraft, actuators, cargo containers, aftermarket spare parts and repair services. Marketed under the Telair International brand name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft original equipment manufacturers or to airlines and air freight carriers as “buyer furnished equipment” for original installations or as retrofits for existing equipment. Our other Telair products in this category include: narrow-body aircraft cargo-loading systems and cargo containers. We also manufacture and repair components for 6 Table of Contents our systems and other related aircraft controls, including canopy and door actuators, cargo winches and flight controls. The following table sets forth revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003 by significant product category for the Aerospace Segment. 2005 2004 2003 (Dollars in thousands) Repair Products and Services $ 241,532 $ 234,822 $ 233,381 No other product line for the Aerospace Segment amounted to more than 10% of consolidated revenues for any period presented. The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues by end market for 2005 for the Aerospace Segment. Commercial Aviation 84 % Military 12 % Power Generation and Other 4 % Backlog: As of December 25, 2005, our backlog of firm orders for our Aerospace Segment was $316 million, of which we expect nearly three-fourths to be filled in 2006. Our backlog for our Aerospace Segment on December 26, 2004 was $289 million. Marketing: Generally, products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own force of field representatives. Discontinued Operations During the third quarter of 2005, we completed the sale of our automotive pedal systems business and sold a European medical product sterilization business. During the second quarter of 2005, we adopted a plan to sell a small medical business and we are actively marketing this business. During the first quarter of 2005, we completed the sale of Sermatech International, a surface-engineering/specialty coatings business. For 2005 and comparable periods, the automotive pedal systems business, the European medical product sterilization business, the small medical business and Sermatech business have been presented in our consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations. The Sermatech business was previously reported as part of our Aerospace Segment. For a more complete discussion, see Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Government Regulation Government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers utilizing our products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacturing and sale of some of our aerospace products and license the operation of our repair stations. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration regulates the manufacturing and sale of numerous of our automotive products. Competition Given the range and diversity of our products and markets, no one competitor offers competitive products for all the markets and customers that we serve. In general, all of our segments and product lines face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes, although the number of competitors in each market tends to be limited. We believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence 7 Table of Contents and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. Patents and Trademarks We own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. We also license various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. All capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. Although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the Teleflex brand, to be material to the operation of our business. Suppliers and Materials Materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. We are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. Most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. Volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. We cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly OEMs. Seasonality A portion of our revenues, particularly in the Commercial and Medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Revenues in the automotive and industrial markets are generally reduced in the third quarter of each year as a result of preparations by OEM manufacturers for the upcoming model year. In addition, marine aftermarket revenues generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. Incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. Employees We employed approximately 20,400 full-time and temporary employees at December 25, 2005. Of these employees, approximately 8,100 were employed in the United States and 12,300 in countries outside of the United States. Less than 10 percent of our employees in the United States were covered by union contracts. We have government-mandated collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Therefore, we file reports and information, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such reports, proxy and information statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. You can access financial and other information in the Investors section of our Web site. The address is www.teleflex.com. We make available through our Web site, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports 8 Table of Contents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. The information on the Web site listed above is not and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. We are a Delaware corporation organized in 1943. Our executive offices are located at 155 South Limerick Road, Limerick, PA 19468. Our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The names and ages of all of our executive officers as of February 21, 2006 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: Name Age Positions and Offices with Company Lennox K. Black 75 Chairman of the Board John J. Sickler 63 Vice Chairman Jeffrey P. Black 46 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Clark D. Handy 49 Executive Vice President — Human Resources Martin S. Headley 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Laurence G. Miller 51 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Kevin K. Gordon 43 Senior Vice President — Corporate Development Vince Northfield 42 President — Commercial Forrest Whittaker 56 President — Medical John Suddarth 46 President — Aerospace Mr. Lennox K. Black has been Chairman of the Board since April 1983. From January 2000 until May 2002, he was also Chief Executive Officer. Lennox K. Black is the father of Mr. Jeffrey P. Black. Mr. Sickler has been Vice Chairman since December 2000. From December 2003 until August 2004, he was Interim Chief Financial Officer. Prior to December 2000 he was a Senior Vice President. Mr. Jeffrey P. Black has been Chief Executive Officer since May 2002 and President since December 2000. He has been a Director since November 2002. Mr. Jeffrey P. Black was President of the Teleflex Industrial Group from July 2000 to December 2000 and President of Teleflex Fluid Systems from January 1999 to July 2000. Mr. Handy has been Executive Vice President—Human Resources since April 2003. He was Vice President of Human Resources for the Research and Development division of Wyeth, an international provider of pharmaceuticals, consumer healthcare products, and animal healthcare products, from August 2000 to April 2003, and from November 1998 until August 2000 he was Vice President of Human Resources for the Supply Chain division of Wyeth. Mr. Headley has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2004. From July 1996 until August 2004, he was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Roper Industries, Inc., a diversified industrial company that designs, manufactures and distributes engineered products and solutions for global niche markets. From July 1993 to June 1996, Mr. Headley served as Chief Financial Officer of the U.S. operations of McKechnie Group, plc, a manufacturer of components and assemblies for a variety of industries. Mr. Miller has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since November 2004, following a 20-year career with Aramark Corporation. From November 2001 until November 2004, he was Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel for Food & Support Services division of Aramark, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety 9 Table of Contents of organizations. From June 1994 until November 2001, Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President and General Counsel for Aramark Uniform Services. Mr. Gordon has been Senior Vice President — Corporate Development since June 2005. From December 2000 to June 2005, Mr. Gordon was Vice President — Corporate Development. Prior to December 2000, Mr. Gordon was Director of Business Development. Mr. Northfield has been the President of Teleflex Commercial since June 2005. From 2004 to 2005, Mr. Northfield was the President of Teleflex Automotive and the Vice President of Strategic Development. Mr. Northfield held the position of Vice President of Strategic Development from 2001 to 2004. Prior to 2001, Mr. Northfield was Vice President and General Manager of North American operations of Morse Controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by Teleflex in 2001. Mr. Whittaker has been the President of Teleflex Medical since April 2003. Prior to joining Teleflex, Mr. Whittaker was the President of the Respiratory Division of Tyco Healthcare, a company engaged in the manufacture, distribution and servicing of medical devices. Mr. Suddarth has been the President of Teleflex Aerospace since July 2004. From 2003 to 2004, Mr. Suddarth was the President of Techsonic Industries Inc., a subsidiary of Teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment which was divested in 2004. Mr. Suddarth was the Chief Operating Officer of AMF Bowling Products, Inc., a bowling equipment manufacturer, from 2001 to 2003. Prior to 2001, Mr. Suddarth was President of Morse Controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by Teleflex in 2001. Our officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board held after our annual stockholders meeting. Each officer serves at the pleasure of the Board until their respective successors have been elected. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: The costs associated with our restructuring and divestiture program may be greater than expected. We are engaged in a restructuring and divestiture program, which requires management to utilize significant estimates related to realizable values of assets made redundant or obsolete and expenses for severance and other employee separation costs, lease cancellation and other exit costs. Although the program is substantially completed, actual results could differ materially from those estimated due to, among other things: inability to sell businesses at prices, or within time-periods, anticipated by management; unanticipated expenditures in connection with the effectuation of the program; costs and length of time required to comply with legal requirements applicable to certain aspects of the program; inability to realize anticipated cost savings; and unanticipated difficulties in connection with consolidation of manufacturing and administrative functions. Many of the industries in which we operate are cyclical, and, accordingly, our business is subject to changes in the economy. Although the diversified nature of our business reduces the risk that all of our operations would experience simultaneous cyclical downturns, many of the businesses which we operate are subject to specific industry and general economic cycles, most acutely in the automotive, marine, aerospace and transportation industries. Accordingly, any downturn in these or other markets in which we participate could materially adversely affect us. Moreover, if demand changes and we fail to respond accordingly, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected in any given quarter. 10 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. Although no material concentration of our manufacturing operations exists in any single country, we have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including entities that are not wholly-owned and other alliances. As of December 25, 2005, approximately 42% of our total assets and 55% of our total revenues were attributable to products distributed from our operations outside the U.S. Our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the U.S., including: • exchange controls and currency restrictions; • trade protection measures and import or export requirements; • subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; and • unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products are typically integrated into other manufacturers’ products. As a result changes in demand for our customers’ products may adversely affect our revenues on short notice. Many of our customers in the Commercial and Aerospace segments, including OEMs, integrate our products into products our customers sell. Our customers also generally have no obligation to purchase any minimum quantity of product from us and may terminate our arrangement on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, sometimes less. Our reported backlog may not be realized as revenues. Revenues could materially decline if these customers experience a reduction in demand for their products or cancel a significant number of contracts and we cannot replace them with similar arrangements. Customers in our Medical Segment depend on third party reimbursement. Demand for some of our medical products is impacted by the reimbursement to our customers of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers in the countries where we do business. Internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. Other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. Without both favorable coverage determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for some of our medical products could be impacted. We cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. Adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of this reimbursement could harm our business. In addition, through their purchasing power, these payors often seek discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers. Uncertainties regarding future healthcare policy, legislation and regulations, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in commercially acceptable quantities at profitable prices. Foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. We expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Our consoli- 11 Table of Contents dated financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency. When the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our U.S. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. Although we maintain a currency hedging program to reduce the effects of this fluctuation, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. Many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin content. We also use quantities of other commodities, including copper and zinc. We monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. However, volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We depend on our ability to develop new products. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products, including developing electronic technology to replace or improve upon mechanical technology. This product development may require substantial investment by us. There can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: • identify viable new products; • obtain adequate intellectual property protection; • gain market acceptance of new products; or • successfully obtain regulatory approvals. Moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products could reduce our margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our technology is important to our success and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of these intellectual property rights is important to the future success of our business. In addition to relying on patent, trademark and copyright rights, we rely on unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, and employ various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees, to protect our know-how and trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S., and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than us or that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. We are subject to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are a party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business. These lawsuits and claims include actions involving product liability, contracts, intellectual property, employment and environmental matters. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or 12 Table of Contents settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The outcome of these legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Much of our business is subject to extensive regulation and/or oversight by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Numerous national and local government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers incorporating our products. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration regulates the manufacturing and sale of many of our automotive products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacturing and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses the operation of our repair stations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. We are also subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: • the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; • emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and • the health and safety of our employees. These laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. There is the possibility that acquisitions and strategic alliances may not meet revenue and/or profit expectations. As part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances. However, there can be no assurance that these will be completed or beneficial to us. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all 13 Table of Contents such risks. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of services. Approximately 15% of manufacturing revenues are produced by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. It is likely that a significant portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. Strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 