Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Teleflex Incorporated (referred to herein as “we,” “us,” “our,” “Teleflex” and the “Company”) is a diversified company specializing in the design, manufacture and distribution of quality engineered products and services. The Company serves a wide range of customers in segments of the medical, aerospace and commercial industries. The Company’s products include: medical devices used in critical care and anesthesia applications, surgical instruments and devices, cardiac assist devices for hospitals and healthcare providers and instruments and devices delivered to medical device manufacturers; aerospace engine repair products and services and cargo-handling systems and equipment used in commercial aircraft; and marine driver controls, engine assemblies and drive parts, power and fuel management systems and rigging products and services for commercial industries. For more than 65 years, we have provided specialty-engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements. We have grown through an active program of development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and through acquisitions of companies with related market, technology or industry expertise. We serve a diverse customer base in over 150 countries through our own operations and through local direct sales and distribution networks. We are focused on achieving consistent and sustainable growth through our internal growth initiatives which include the development of new products, expansion of market share, moving existing products into new geographies, and through selected acquisitions which enhance or expedite our development initiatives and our ability to grow market share. We continually evaluate the composition of the portfolio of our businesses to ensure alignment with our overall objectives. We strive to maintain a portfolio of businesses that provide consistency of performance, improved profitability and sustainable growth. To this end, in 2007 we significantly changed the composition of our portfolio through acquisitions in all three business segments and divestitures in both our Commercial and Aerospace segments. Specifically, in our Medical Segment, we completed the acquisition of Arrow International, a medical products company with annual net revenues of over $500 million, which significantly expanded the segment. We also completed the acquisition of a small orthopedic device manufacturer to expand our capability to serve medical device manufacturers. In our Commercial Segment, we acquired a rigging services business with annual net revenues of approximately $25 million. At the end of 2007, we completed the divestiture of our automotive and industrial businesses (“GMS”) with 2007 net revenues of over $860 million, significantly reducing the size of our Commercial Segment. In our Aerospace Segment, we acquired a cargo equipment business with annual net revenues of approximately $55 million and divested a precision — machined components business with approximately $130 million in annual net revenues. These measures were taken to improve margins, reduce cyclicality and focus our resources on the development of our core businesses. We continually evaluate the composition of the portfolio of our businesses to ensure alignment with our overall objectives. Our Business Segments We organize our business into three business segments — Medical, Aerospace and Commercial. For 2008, the percentages of our consolidated net revenues represented by our segments were as follows: Medical — 62 percent, Aerospace — 21 percent and Commercial — 17 percent. Further detail and additional information regarding our segments and geographic areas is presented in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations At the end of 2007, we completed the sale of our business units that design and manufacture automotive and industrial driver controls, motion systems and fluid handling systems to Kongsberg Automotive Holding ASA for $560 million in cash. On June 29, 2007, we completed the sale of a precision-machined components business in our Aerospace Segment for approximately $134 million in cash and in 2006, we sold a small medical business. These businesses met the criteria for reporting discontinued operations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144. “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” In compliance with SFAS No. 144, the Company has reported results of operations, cash flows and gains (losses) on the disposition of these businesses as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding divestiture activity and accounting for discontinued operations. The following business segment and product category information reflects businesses in continuing operations as of December 31, 2008. Business Segment Overview Medical The businesses in our Medical Segment design, manufacture and distribute medical products primarily used in critical care, surgical applications and cardiac care. Additionally, we design, manufacture and supply devices and instruments for medical device manufacturers. We are focused on providing disposable or single use medical products for critical care and surgery that enhance patient outcomes by providing products that are less invasive, reduce infection and improve patient safety. Our products are largely sold and distributed to hospitals and healthcare providers and are most widely used in the acute care setting for a range of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and in general and specialty surgical applications. Major manufacturing operations are located in Czech Republic, Germany, Malaysia, Mexico and the United States. Approximately 50 percent of our segment net revenues are derived from customers outside the United States. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we acquired Arrow International, a leading global supplier of catheter-based medical technology products used for vascular access and cardiac care. This acquisition significantly expanded our disposable medical product offerings for critical care, enhanced our global footprint and added to our research and development capabilities. Disposable Medical Products for Critical Care: This is the largest product category in the Medical Segment, representing 64 percent of segment net revenues in 2008. Disposable medical products are used in a wide range of critical care procedures for vascular access, respiratory care, anesthesia and airway management, treatment of urologic conditions, as well as other specialty procedures. Disposable medical products for critical care are generally marketed under the brand names of Arrow, Rüsch, HudsonRCI, Gibeck and Sheridan. The large majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to the hospital/healthcare provider market, with a smaller percentage sold to alternate sites. Vascular Access Products: Our vascular access products are generally catheter-based products used in a variety of clinical procedures to facilitate multiple critical care therapies including the administration of intravenous medications, other therapies, and the measurement of blood pressure and taking of blood samples through a single puncture site. Vascular access catheters and related devices consist principally of central venous access catheters (“CVC”) such as the following: the Arrow-Howe’stm Multi-Lumen Catheter, a catheter equipped with three or four channels, or lumens; double-and single-lumen catheters, which are designed for use in a variety of clinical 4 Table of Contents procedures; the Arrow Pressure Injectable CVC, which gives clinicians who perform CT scans the option of using an indwelling pressure injectable Arrow CVC without having to insert another catheter for their scan; and percutaneous sheath introducers, which are used as a means for inserting cardiovascular and other catheterization devices into the vascular system during critical care procedures. We also provide a range of peripherally inserted central catheters, which are soft, flexible catheters inserted in the upper arm and advanced into the superior vena cava and are accessed for various types of intravenous medications and therapies, and radial artery catheters, which are used for measuring arterial blood pressure and taking blood samples. Our offerings include a pressure injectable peripherally inserted catheter which addresses the therapeutic need for a catheter that can withstand the higher pressures required by the injection of contrast media for CT scans. Our vascular access products also include specialty catheters and related products used in a range of other procedures and include percutaneous thrombolytic devices, which are designed for clearance of thrombosed hemodialysis grafts in chronic hemodialysis patients; and hemodialysis access catheters, including the Cannon® Catheter, which is used to facilitate dialysis treatment. Many of our vascular access catheters are treated with the ARROWg+ard®, or ARROWg+ard Blue Plus®, antiseptic surface treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related infection. ARROWg+ard Blue Plus, is a newer, longer lasting formulation of ARROWg+ard and provides antimicrobial treatment of the interior lumens and hubs of each catheter. As part of our ongoing efforts to meet physicians’ needs for safety and management of risk of infection in the hospital setting, we sell a Maximal Barrier Precautions central venous access kit, which includes a full body drape, a catheter treated with the ARROWg+ard antimicrobial technology, and other accessories. The features of this kit were created to address recent guidelines for reducing catheter-related bloodstream infections that were set by a variety of health regulatory agencies, such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, among others. Related products include custom tubing sets used to connect central venous catheters to blood pressure monitoring devices and drug infusion systems, and the Arrow InView portable ultrasound machine designed to support placement and administration of vascular access products. Respiratory Care: Respiratory care products principally consist of devices used in aerosol and medication delivery, oxygen therapy and ventilation management. We offer an extensive range of aerosol therapy products, including the Micromist® Nebulizer, the Neb-U-Mask® System and the Opti-Neb Protm Compressor. We are also a global provider of oxygen supplies, offering a broad range of products to deliver oxygen therapy safely and comfortably. These include masks, cannulas, tubing and humidifiers. The full range of these products are used in a variety of clinical settings including hospitals, long-term care facilities, rehabilitation centers and patients’ homes to treat respiratory ailments such as chronic lung disease, pneumonia, cystic fibrosis and asthma. Our ventilation management solutions promote patient safety and maximize clinician efficiency. These products include ventilator circuits with an extended life to support clinical practice guidelines, high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters with 99.9999% efficiency against the transmission of bacteria and viruses, heat and moisture exchangers that reduce circuit manipulation and cross-contamination risk, and heated humidifiers that promote patient compliance to non-invasive respiratory strategies, like Non-Invasive Ventilation (“NIV”) and High Flow Oxygen Therapy. The ConchaTherm® Neptune® is a heated humidification solution. It is designed to allow the caregiver to customize patient treatment to meet specific clinical goals. This results in advanced patient outcomes without sacrificing clinician efficiency. Anesthesia and Airway Management: Anesthesiologists depend on our highly recognized brands of Hudson, Sheridan and Rüsch products that include endotracheal tubes, laryngeal masks, airways and face 5 Table of Contents masks to deliver anesthetic agents and oxygen. To assist in the placement of endotracheal tubes, we provide a comprehensive and unique line of laryngoscope blades and handles, including standard halogen and fiber optic light sources. Fiber optic light sources offer a high intensity, cool white light without generating the same level of heat that comes from standard halogen bulbs. Regional anesthesia products include epidural and peripheral nerve block catheters. Nerve blocks provide pain relief after surgical procedures and help clinicians better manage each patient’s pain. We offer the first stimulating continuous nerve block catheter, the Arrow StimuCath, which confirms the positive placement of the catheter next to the nerve. The Flex Tip Plus continuous epidural catheter features a soft, flexible tip that helps reduce the incidence of complications, such as transient paresthesia and inadvertent cannulation of blood vessels or the dura, while improving the clinician’s ability to thread the catheter into the epidural space. Our Arrow TheraCath® epidural catheter, with high compression strength for direction-ability and enhanced radiopacity, was designed for pain management procedures where increased steer-ability is important. Additional integral components create a range of standard and custom procedural kits. Urology: Our line of urology products provides bladder management products for patients in the hospital and home care markets. Our product portfolio consists principally of catheters (including Foley, intermittent, external and suprapubic), urine collectors, catheterization accessories and products for operative endurology. Teleflex Medical today has significant market share in Foley catheters in the EMEA markets (Europe, the Middle East and Africa). The intermittent catheter market for home care is growing quickly, and Medical Service, our specialist in intermittent catheterization, has a leading share of the German healthcare market with Liquick Base and mobile catheters. Teleflex Medical in Italy has also significantly increased its sales of intermittent catheters in the year 2008. We also design our urine collectors, catheterization accessories and kits with Teleflex Medical’s overall infection prevention strategy in mind. For example, the Rüsch MMG Closed System intermittent catheter is used in the treatment of spinal cord injury patients. Our Teleflex Medical Team in North America successfully introduced a new version of the MMG H2O to the market in 2008. Surgical Instruments and Medical Devices: Products in this category represented 20 percent of Medical Segment net revenues in 2008. Our surgical instrument and medical device products include: ligation and closure products including appliers, clips, and sutures used in a variety of surgical procedures, hand-held instruments for general and specialty surgical procedures, access ports used in minimally invasive surgical procedures including robotic surgery, and fluid management products used for chest drainage. In addition, we provide instrument management services. We market surgical instruments and medical devices under the Deknatel, Pleur-evac, Pilling, Taut and Weck brand names. Hem-o-lok is the world’s only patented locking polymer ligation clip, and is a growing part of the Weck portfolio. Hem-o-lok clips have special applications in robotic, laparoscopic, and cardiovascular surgery, and provide surgeons with a unique level of security and performance. In 2009, we plan to introduce the Taut® Universal Seal designed for use with the ADAPttm line of bladeless laparoscopic access devices. The new Taut seal eclipses other options by providing surgeons the ability to perform laparoscopic procedures without flimsy diaphragm seals, lubricants that can smudge cameras, or the need for reducer caps. Coupled with the new universal seal, Taut provides a complete line of ports from 3mm to 15mm, including balloon ports and bariatric and pediatric versions. Taut ports were designed around the patented ADAPt asymmetrical dilating access tip that dilates through tissue without metal or plastic blades. The ADAPt tip has been shown to produce a fascial defect 58 percent smaller than typical bladed trocars and avoids exposing any anatomical structures to a blade of any kind. Devices for Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEM”): Customized medical instruments, implants and components sold to medical device manufacturers represented 10 percent of Medical Segment revenues in 2008. Under the well-regarded brand names of Beere Medical®, KMedic®, Specialized Medical Devicestm, Deknatel® and TFX OEM® we provide specialized product development services, which include design 6 Table of Contents engineering, prototyping and testing, manufacturing, assembly and packaging. Our OEM product development and manufacturing facilities are located in Germany, Ireland, Mexico and the United States. The OEM category includes custom extrusion, catheter fabrication, introducer systems, sheath/dilator sets, specialty sutures, resins and performance fibers. We also provide machined and forged instrumentation for general and specialty procedures, Ortho-Grip® instrument handles and fixation devices used primarily for orthopedic procedures. Cardiac Care Devices: Cardiac care products accounted for approximately 5 percent of revenues in fiscal 2008. Products in this category range from diagnostic catheters, such as thermodilution and wedge pressure catheters, specialized angiographic catheters, such as Berman and Reverse Berman catheters, therapeutic delivery catheters, such as temporary pacing catheters and intra-aortic balloon (IAB) catheters to capital equipment, such as intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) consoles. IABP products are used to augment oxygen delivery to the cardiac muscle and reduce the oxygen demand after cardiac surgery, serious heart attack or interventional procedures. The IAB and IABP product lines feature the AutoCAT 2 WAVE® console and the FiberOptixtm catheter, which together utilize fiber optic technology for arterial pressure signal acquisition and allow the patented WAVE® timing algorithm to support the broadest range of patient heart rhythms, including severely arrhythmic patients. The following table sets forth net revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006 by product category for the Medical Segment. 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Medical Products for Critical Care $ 957,129 $ 578,097 $ 485,924 Surgical Instruments and Devices $ 295,992 $ 294,501 $ 234,964 Devices for Original Equipment Manufacturers $ 158,343 $ 138,142 $ 137,788 Devices for Cardiac Care $ 72,871 $ 18,154 $ — Other $ 14,772 $ 12,455 $ — The following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues by end market for the Medical Segment. 2008 2007 Hospitals / Healthcare Providers 84 % 78 % Medical Device Manufacturers 10 % 13 % Home Health 6 % 9 % Markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns in the worldwide healthcare markets. Our products are sold through direct sales or distribution in over 140 countries. The following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues for 2008 derived from the major geographic areas we serve. 2008 2007 North America 53 % 54 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 37 % 38 % Asia, Latin America 10 % 8 % Sales and Marketing: Medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers of medical devices through our own sales forces and through independent representatives and independent distributor networks. Backlog: Most of our medical products are sold to hospitals or healthcare providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or weeks with a longer order time for products sold to medical device manufacturers. Therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. 7 Table of Contents Aerospace Our Aerospace Segment businesses provide engine repair products and services for flight turbine engines, cargo handling systems and equipment for wide body and narrow body aircraft, cargo containment devices for air cargo and passenger baggage, and actuators for applications in commercial and military aircraft. Engine repair products and services are provided for all major engine suppliers and we serve most of the world’s leading commercial airlines. Our market leading brand names, Airfoil Technologies International, Telair International, and Nordisk are well known and respected on a global basis. Sales to customers in commercial aviation markets represent 99 percent of revenues in this segment. Markets for these products are influenced by the level of general economic activity, investment patterns in new aircraft, both passenger and cargo, cargo market trends, flight hours, and age and type of engines in use. Major locations for manufacturing and service are located in Singapore, Germany, Norway, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Sweden. Engine Repair Products and Services: The largest single product category in the Aerospace Segment, repair products and services represented 50 percent of Aerospace Segment revenues in 2008. This category includes engine repair technologies and services primarily for critical components of flight turbines, including fan blades, compressors and airfoils. We utilize advanced reprofiling and adaptive-machining techniques to improve efficiency of aircraft engine performance and reduce turnaround time for maintenance and repairs. Our repair products and services business is conducted through a consolidated, fifty-one percent owned venture with GE Aircraft Engines, called Airfoil Technologies International (ATI). In 2007, ATI signed a joint venture and management agreement with Snecma Services to expand the range of repair services provided to our customers. Cargo-handling Systems and Equipment: Products in this category represented 50 percent of Aerospace Segment revenues in 2008. Our cargo-handling systems include on-board cargo-loading systems for wide-body aircraft, baggage-handling systems for narrow body aircraft, aftermarket spare parts and repair services. Marketed under the Telair International brand name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft original equipment manufacturers or to airlines and air freight carriers as “seller and/or buyer furnished equipment” for original installations or as retrofits for existing equipment. Cargo-handling systems require a high degree of engineering sophistication and are often custom-designed. In addition to the design and manufacture of cargo systems, we provide customers with aftermarket spare parts and repair services for their Telair systems. We also design, manufacture and repair cargo containers. In November 2007, we acquired Nordisk Aviation Products, expanding our customer base and global manufacturing and service capacity for cargo equipment. All of our cargo containers and pallets are now marketed to commercial airlines and freight companies under the Nordisk name. We also manufacture and repair components for our systems and other related aircraft controls, including canopy and door actuators, cargo winches and flight controls. The following table sets forth net revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006 by product category for the Aerospace Segment. 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Engine Repair Products and Services $ 257,428 $ 253,975 $ 250,519 Cargo-handling Systems and Equipment $ 253,818 $ 197,813 $ 154,853 The following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues by end market for the Aerospace Segment. 2008 2007 Commercial Aviation 99 % 97 % Military, Industrial and Other 1 % 3 % 8 Table of Contents Backlog: As of December 31, 2008, our backlog of firm orders for our Aerospace Segment was $78 million, of which we expect approximately 91 percent to be filled in 2009. Our backlog for our Aerospace Segment on December 31, 2007 was $141 million. Sales and Marketing: Products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own field representatives and distributors. Commercial Our Commercial Segment businesses principally design, manufacture and distribute driver controls and engine and drive assemblies for the marine market, power and fuel systems for truck, rail, automotive and industrial vehicles and rigging products and services. Our products are used in a range of markets including: recreational marine, heavy truck, bus, industrial vehicles, rail, oil and gas, marine transportation and industrial. Major manufacturing operations are located in Canada, Europe, Singapore and the United States. Marine Driver Controls and Engine Assemblies and Drive Parts: This is the largest single product category in the Commercial Segment, representing 48 percent of the Commercial Segment revenues in 2008. Products in this category include: shift and throttle cables, mechanical and hydraulic steering systems, throttle controls, instrumentation and engine drive parts. We are a leading global provider of both mechanical and hydraulic steering systems for recreational powerboats. We are also a leading distributor of engine assemblies and drive parts. Our marine products are sold to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and to the aftermarket through distributors, dealers and retail outlets. Our major product brands include Teleflex Marine, TFXtreme, SeaStar, BayStar, Sierra and Proheat. Power and Fuel Systems: Products in this category represented 27 percent of Commercial Segment revenues in 2008. Our major products in this category include auxiliary power units used for power in heavy-duty trucks and locomotives, climate control systems used in trucks, buses and other industrial vehicles and components and systems for the use of alternative fuels in industrial vehicles and passenger cars. These products generally address the need for greater fuel efficiency, reduced emissions and access to mobile power. Our major product brands in this category are ComfortPro and Teleflex GFI. Rigging Products and Services: Products in this category represented 25 percent of Commercial Segment revenues in 2008. Products include heavy-duty cables and hoisting and rigging equipment used in oil drilling, marine transportation and other industrial markets. We also help our customers meet new legislation and safety regulations for moorings. In 2007, Teleflex Commercial enhanced its offerings when it acquired Southern Wire Corporation, a prominent wholesale provider of rigging services. The following table sets forth net revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006 by product category for the Commercial Segment. 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in thousands) Marine Driver Controls and Engine and Drive Parts $ 198,987 $ 240,092 $ 229,250 Power and Fuel Systems $ 110,153 $ 119,026 $ 129,116 Rigging Products and Services $ 101,454 $ 82,077 $ 68,395 The following table sets forth the percentage of net revenues by end market for the Commercial Segment. 2008 2007 Recreational Marine 41 % 48 % Truck and Rail 9 % 15 % Automotive and Industrial Vehicle 25 % 18 % Rigging Products and Services 25 % 19 % 9 Table of Contents Backlog: Standard Commercial segment products are typically shipped between a few days and three months after receipt of order. Therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any future 12-month period. Sales and Marketing: The majority of our Commercial Segment products are sold through a direct sales force of field representatives and technical specialists. Marine driver controls and engine and drive parts are sold directly to boat builders and engine manufacturers as well as through distributors, dealers and retail outlets to reach recreational boaters. Auxiliary power units are primarily sold in the North American truck market through an agreement with a distributor and to the rail market using a direct sales force and distributors. Fuel systems and components include custom applications sold globally directly to industrial equipment manufacturers and to the automotive aftermarket principally in Europe and Latin America. Rigging products and services includes both a retail business and a wholesale business, both of which sell through a direct sales force. Government Regulation Government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products and the products sold by our customers utilizing our products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing, and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and license the operation of our repair stations. For more information, see ITEM 1A. “Risk Factors”. Competition Given the range and diversity of our products and markets, no one competitor offers competitive products for all the markets and customers that we serve. In general, all of our segments and product lines face significant competition from competitors of varying sizes, although the number of competitors in each market tends to be limited. We believe that our competitive position depends on the technical competence and creative ability of our engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our manufacturing personnel, and the strength and scope of our sales, service and distribution networks. Patents and Trademarks We own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks. We also license various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks. All capitalized product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries. Although these have been of value and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single patent or trademark, except for the Teleflex brand and the Arrow brand, to be essential to the operation of our business. Suppliers and Materials Materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic locations. We are not dependent on any single supplier for a substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied for our overall operations. Most of the materials and components we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical, we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. Volatility in commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of our products. We cannot be assured of successfully passing these cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly original equipment manufacturers. 10 Table of Contents Seasonality Portions of our revenues, particularly in the Commercial and Medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Revenues in the marine aftermarket generally increase in the second quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming season. Incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues related to disposable medical products. Employees We employed approximately 14,200 full-time and temporary employees at December 31, 2008. Of these employees, approximately 4,100 were employed in the United States and 10,100 in countries outside of the United States. Less than 8 percent of our employees in the United States were covered by union contracts. We have government-mandated collective-bargaining arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other countries. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. Investor Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Therefore, we file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, proxy and information statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. You can access financial and other information in the Investors section of our website. The address is www.teleflex.com. We make available through our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. The information on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. The reference to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. We are a Delaware corporation organized in 1943. Our executive offices are located at 155 South Limerick Road, Limerick, PA 19468. Our telephone number is (610) 948-5100. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The names and ages of all of our executive officers as of February 24, 2009 and the positions and offices held by each such officer are as follows: Name Age Positions and Offices with Company Jeffrey P. Black 49 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director Kevin K. Gordon 46 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Laurence G. Miller 54 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary R. Ernest Waaser 52 President — Medical John Suddarth 49 President — Aerospace Vince Northfield 45 Executive Vice President, Global Operations - Medical Randall P. Gaboriault 39 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer 11 Table of Contents Mr. Black has been Chairman since May 2006, Chief Executive Officer since May 2002 and President since December 2000. He has been a Director since November 2002. Mr. Black was President of the Teleflex Industrial Group from July 2000 to December 2000 and President of Teleflex Fluid Systems from January 1999 to July 2000. Mr. Gordon has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2007. From June 2005 until March 2007, he was Senior Vice President — Corporate Development. From December 2000 to June 2005, Mr. Gordon was Vice President — Corporate Development. Prior to December 2000, Mr. Gordon was Director of Business Development. Mr. Miller has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since February 2008. From November 2004 to February 2008, Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. From November 2001 until November 2004, he was Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel for the Food & Support Services division of Aramark Corporation, a diversified management services company providing food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a variety of organizations. From June 1994 until November 2001, Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President and General Counsel for Aramark Uniform Services. Mr. Waaser has been the President of Teleflex Medical since October 2006. Prior to joining Teleflex, Mr. Waaser served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Hill-Rom, Inc., a manufacturer and provider of products and services for the healthcare industry, including patient room equipment, therapeutic wound and pulmonary care products, biomedical equipment services and communications systems, from 2001 to 2005. Prior to 2001, Mr. Waaser served as Senior Vice President of AGFA Corporation, a producer of analog and digital imaging products for medical, industrial, graphics and consumer applications. Mr. Suddarth has been the President of Teleflex Aerospace since July 2004. From 2003 to 2004, Mr. Suddarth was the President of Techsonic Industries Inc., a former subsidiary of Teleflex that manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment which was divested in 2004. Mr. Suddarth was the Chief Operating Officer of AMF Bowling Products, Inc., a bowling equipment manufacturer, from 2001 to 2003. Prior to 2001, Mr. Suddarth was President of Morse Controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by Teleflex in 2001. Mr. Northfield has been the Executive Vice President for Global Operations, Teleflex Medical since September 2008. From 2005 to 2008, Mr. Northfield was the President of Teleflex Commercial. From 2004 to 2005, Mr. Northfield was the President of Teleflex Automotive and the Vice President of Strategic Development. Mr. Northfield held the position of Vice President of Strategic Development from 2001 to 2004. Prior to 2001, Mr. Northfield was Vice President and General Manager of North American operations of Morse Controls, a manufacturer of performance and control systems and aftermarket parts for marine and industrial applications, which was acquired by Teleflex in 2001. Mr. Gaboriault has been Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer since February 2008. From 2005 to 2008, he was Chief Information and Strategic Development Officer. From 2004 to 2005, he was Chief Information Officer. From 1998 to 2004, Mr. Gaboriault was the Director of Information Technology. Our officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors. Each officer serves at the pleasure of the Board until their respective successors have been elected. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to the following: Our inability to resolve issues related to the FDA corporate warning letter issued to Arrow could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On October 11, 2007, Arrow received a corporate warning letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), which expresses concerns with Arrow’s quality systems, including complaint handling, corrective and preventive action, process and design validation and inspection and training procedures. While we are working with the FDA to resolve these issues, this work has required and will continue to require the dedication of significant internal and external resources. There can be no assurances regarding the length of time or cost it will take us to resolve these issues to the satisfaction of the FDA. In addition, if our remedial actions are not satisfactory to the FDA, we may need to devote additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the FDA may take further regulatory actions against us. These actions may include seizing our product inventory, obtaining a court injunction against further marketing of our products, assessing civil monetary penalties or imposing a consent decree on us, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A prolonged global economic recession combined with a continuation of volatile global credit markets could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Current global economic and financial market conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. This could include future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. The amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet have increased significantly in recent years, primarily as a result of the acquisition of Arrow International in 2007. These economic conditions may also materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with which we do business. Economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders or to reduce the volume of products or services they purchase from us in the future. The impact of the difficult economic environment was felt mostly in our Commercial segment during 2008, as the markets served by our marine and auxiliary power unit products were adversely impacted. We expect the marine market to remain weak for most, if not all, of 2009. In addition, hospitals in some regions of the United States have seen a decline in admissions and a reduction in elective procedures and have limited their capital spending. More than 80 percent of our Medical revenues come from disposable products used in critical care and surgical applications and our sales volume could be negatively impacted by declines in admission. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. Changes of this type could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial market conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. We may not be able to successfully complete the integration of Arrow or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Arrow acquisition. The integration of Arrow into our Medical Segment involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. In particular, we may have difficulty with, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to: • consolidating manufacturing and administrative functions; • complying with legal requirements applicable to certain aspects of the integration; 13 Table of Contents • retaining key employees; • consolidating infrastructures and systems; • coordinating sales and marketing functions; • preserving our and Arrow’s customer, supplier and other important relationships; and • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. The success of the Arrow acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from successfully combining the businesses of Arrow and of Teleflex Medical in the time frame we anticipate. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Failure to successfully complete the integration of Arrow or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Arrow may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial debt obligations that could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We incurred significant indebtedness to fund a portion of the consideration for our acquisition of Arrow. As of December 31, 2008, our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.5 billion. We will be required to use a significant portion of our operating cash flow to reduce our indebtedness over the next few years, resulting in a reduction of the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and dividends. Our indebtedness may also subject us to greater vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates because a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. Our senior credit facility and agreements with the holders of our senior notes, which we refer to as our senior debt facilities, impose certain operating and financial covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur debt; • create liens; • consolidate, merge or dispose of assets; • make investments; • engage in acquisitions • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; and • enter into derivative agreements to manage exposure to changes in interest rates. In addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities require us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and in the event of a significant deterioration of our economic performance, we cannot assure that we will be able to satisfy those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior credit facilities. If we fail to maintain compliance with these covenants and cannot obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit under such facilities. If the lenders under the senior credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings and we are not able to obtain financing to satisfy this obligation, we likely would have to liquidate significant assets which nevertheless may not be sufficient to repay our borrowings. 14 Table of Contents We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. Our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products. In particular, our medical device products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings with seriously ill patients. Many of these products are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time, and component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, the patient. Although the Company carries product liability insurance we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to safety and experience lost sales, and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. Although no material concentration of our manufacturing operations exists in any single country, we have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including operations conducted through entities that are not wholly-owned and other alliances. As of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2008, approximately 44% of our total fixed assets and 53% of our total net revenues were attributable to products directly distributed from our operations outside the U.S. Our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the U.S., including: • exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in currency values; • trade protection measures; • import or export requirements; • subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we have operations; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests; and • regional and national tenders (which may be exclusive). These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition generally. Customers in our Medical Segment depend on third party reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide reimbursement or the reduction in levels of reimbursement for our medical products could adversely affect our Medical Segment. Demand for some of our medical products is impacted by the reimbursement to our customers of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers in the countries where we do business. Internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with medical centers in some countries having fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment. Other countries require application for, and approval of, government or third party reimbursement. Without both favorable coverage 15 Table of Contents determinations by, and the financial support of, government and third party insurers, the market for some of our medical products could be adversely impacted. We cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our existing products. Adverse coverage determinations or any reduction in the amount of this reimbursement could harm our business. In addition, as a result of their purchasing power, these payors often seek discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers. Our provision of such pricing concessions could negatively impact our revenues and product margins. Uncertainties regarding future healthcare policy, legislation and regulations, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in acceptable quantities at profitable prices. Foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. We expect revenue from products manufactured in, and sold into, non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Our consolidated financial statements reflect translation of financial statements denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency. When the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture our products, such as the euro, our U.S. dollar-reported revenue and income will fluctuate. Although we have entered into forward contracts with several major financial institutions to hedge a portion of projected cash flows in order to reduce the effects of this fluctuation, changes in the relative values of currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. Many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin content. We also use quantities of other commodities, including copper and zinc. Although we monitor our exposure to these commodity price increases as an integral part of our overall risk management program, volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to successfully develop new products could adversely affect our results. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products and to enhance existing products, particularly in the medical device industry, which is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances. This product development may require substantial investment by us. There can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the inability to: • identify viable new products; • obtain adequate intellectual property protection; • gain market acceptance of new products; or • successfully obtain regulatory approvals. Moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products could reduce our revenues and margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our technology is important to our success, and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we believe that the development and protection of these intellectual property rights is important, though not essential, to the future success of our business. In addition to relying on our patents, trademarks and copyrights, we rely on confidentiality 16 Table of Contents agreements with employees and other measures to protect our know-how and trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better technology than ours or that current and former employees, contractors and other parties will not breach confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive harm that could adversely affect our business. We depend upon relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. The research and development of some of our products is dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with physicians and other health care professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the development of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive the benefits of their knowledge, advice and input, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are a party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business. These lawsuits and claims include actions involving product liability, contracts, intellectual property, import and export regulations, employment and environmental matters. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we do not believe that any litigation in which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse effect, the outcome of these legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict and we cannot assure that the outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Much of our business is subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations. Numerous national and local government agencies in a number of countries regulate our products. The FDA and government agencies in other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our medical products. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some of our aerospace products and licenses the operation of our repair stations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal of required licenses, prohibitions against exporting of products to countries outside the United States, importing products from manufacturing facilities outside the U.S., and civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under Medicaid or Medicare, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all, resulting in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs, which could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Medical Segment facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare pricing and fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: • the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; • emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and • the health and safety of our employees. These laws and government regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may be subject to additional environmental claims, which may include claims for personal injury or cleanup, in the future based on our past, present or future business activities, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions and strategic alliances may not meet revenue or profit expectations. As part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. In this regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of services. Approximately 17% of our manufacturing net revenues are produced by operations for which a significant part of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements in foreign jurisdictions. It is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. Strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 