Item 1A. Risk Factors. Although risk factors are described elsewhere in this Form 10-K together with specific forward-looking statements, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in Units in the Trust. The Trust continues to utilize its cash reserves to pay expenses, and there are not likely to be Net Proceeds distributed to the Trust for the foreseeable future to enable the Trust to pay expenses on a current basis. The Trustees have taken certain actions on behalf of the Trust as permitted under the Trust Agreement, which could materially impact the Unit holders. The Trust's source of capital is the Royalty income received from its share of the Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties. The Trust has not received a distribution of Net Proceeds since December 2008, and there are not likely to be positive Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties for the foreseeable future. The Trust continues to utilize its cash reserves to pay expenses. As of December 31, 2013, those reserves were approximately $873,640. Based upon currently estimated expenditures, it is anticipated that the existing cash reserves will be depleted during the fourth quarter of 2014. On October 31, 2013, the Trust issued a press release announcing that the Partnership had consummated the 2013 Royalty Sale and following such sale the Partnership now holds 60% of the overriding royalty interest (or 15% of 8/8ths). The 2013 Royalty Sale generated $1,200,000 in gross proceeds and occurred as part of a formal auction process for the Partnership's remaining overriding royalty interest in the Royalty Properties. The Trust received from the Partnership a distribution of approximately $1,151,885, representing 99.99% of the net proceeds from the sale of $1,152,000. The Trust used approximately $300,000 of the net proceeds received in October 2013 to repay the Trust's indebtedness under the Note and has used, and will continue to use, the remaining net proceeds solely for the payment of expenses of the Trust. The Partnership has retained a 60% interest in the Original Royalty, and thus the Partnership will receive in the future only 15% of the Net Proceeds when there are sufficient Net Proceeds for distribution on the Partnership's Royalty. Based on the continuing expenses of the Trust and the lack of any distributions and any assurances as to the timing of any future distributions, the Trustees continue to evaluate the actions and alternatives available under the Trust Agreement and such actions and alternatives could materially impact distributions of Net Profits available to the Trust and the likelihood of future distributions to the Unit holders. Production from Eugene Island 339 and Ship Shoal 182 and 183, the two most significant Royalty Properties, ceased following damage inflicted by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. The development and production costs of the Royalty, which includes the costs associated with plugging and abandonment operations associated with Eugene Island 339, have exceeded the proceeds of production from the Royalty Properties and the Trust will not receive Net Proceeds until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest. While oil and natural gas production at Ship Shoal 182 and 183 was restored in 2009 and limited oil and natural gas production was restored at Eugene Island 339 beginning in the fourth quarter of 2012, development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay such costs. In December 2009, Chevron entered into a participation agreement covering the redevelopment of Eugene Island 338 and 339. The redevelopment plan provided that three wells were to be drilled from a common open water location in Eugene Island 338 in the second quarter of 2010. The first well was drilled in 2010 but drilling activity was suspended in July 2010. Chevron and Arena entered into the Arena Agreement in response to Notice to Lessees No. 2010-N05, "Increased Safety Measures for Energy Development on the OCS," and the revised redevelopment plan provided for setting a platform at Eugene Island 338 and drilling wells into Eugene Island 338 and Eugene Island 339 from the platform. On August 4, 2012, Arena completed installation of the remaining topside decks of the 29 Table of Contents structure and on August 16, 2012, Arena commenced mobilization of the H&P 100 platform rig components. On September 28, 2012, Arena spud the OCS-G 2318 Well No. K002 and production from this well was realized in the fourth quarter of 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the Arena Agreement, following completion of the well and the other drilling and development operations, Chevron assigned 65% of Chevron's working interests in Eugene Island 338 and Eugene Island 339 to Arena, effective as of December 15, 2009, the effective date of the Arena Agreement. In accordance with the Arena Agreement, the working interest assigned to Arena is not burdened by the Royalty, and the Royalty held by the Partnership with respect to such properties has been reduced proportionately. As a result of such assignment, the Royalty held by the Partnership on Eugene Island 339 has been reduced by 65%. The Production Costs of the Royalty have exceeded the Gross Proceeds from the Royalty Properties and the Trust will not receive Net Proceeds until future Gross Proceeds exceed the total of the Production Costs plus accrued interest. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay such costs. Accordingly, there will not be sufficient Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties to make distributions for some period of time in the future. As of October 31, 2013, Production Costs of the Royalty exceeded the Gross Proceeds from the Royalty Properties by approximately $5.0 million, net to the entire Original Royalty. The excess development and production costs have decreased from $5.0 million as of October 31, 2013 to $4.9 million as of January 31, 2014, reflecting increased production from the Royalty Properties. While Chevron has not withdrawn any funds from the Special Cost Escrow Account since the fourth quarter of 2010, additional deposits to the Special Cost Escrow account would be required in future periods in accordance with the terms of the Conveyance if, and when, Net Proceeds would otherwise be payable on the Royalty. For additional information, see "Trustee's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operations." No distributions have been made to Unit holders since January 9, 2009. There are not likely to be positive Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance by Chevron or anyone else as to the actual timing for any future distributions to the Partnership from the Royalty, and there is no guarantee that any further distributions will be made. At this time, the ultimate outcome of the various matters cannot be determined with any degree of certainty. Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce Net Proceeds available to the Trust and distributions to Trust Unit holders. Net Proceeds and the Trust's quarterly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas and oil. Natural gas and oil prices can fluctuate widely on a month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and the Working Interest Owners. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others: •political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war and other armed conflict in oil producing regions such as North Africa and the Middle East; •worldwide economic conditions; •weather conditions; •the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas; •the level of consumer demand; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; •the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and •the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. 30 Table of Contents Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas and oil transportation and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term. Crude oil prices have been volatile the last several years and, in 2013, excluding adjustments, ranged from a high of approximately $110.83 to a low of approximately $100.42. The Trust cannot predict the timing or the duration of any economic cycle and, depending on the prices realized, the financial condition of the Trust could be materially adversely affected. When natural gas and oil prices decline, the Trust is affected in two ways. First, net royalties are reduced. Second, any proposed exploration and development activities on the underlying properties become uneconomic and are either delayed or cancelled. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unit holders. Substantially all of the natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the Royalty Properties operated by Chevron is being sold to Chevron Natural Gas at spot market prices. Substantially all of the crude oil produced by the Royalty Properties operated by Chevron is being sold to subsidiaries of Chevron Corporation based on pricing bulletins. Increased production and development costs for the Royalty could result in decreased or no Trust distribution. Production and development costs attributable to the Royalty are deducted in the calculation of the Trust's share of Net Proceeds. Production and development costs are impacted by increases in commodity prices both directly and indirectly, through commodity-price dependent costs such as electricity, and indirectly, as a result of demand-driven increases in costs of oilfield goods and services. Accordingly, higher or lower production and development costs, without concurrent increases in revenues, directly decrease or increase the amount receive by the Trust for the Royalty. In September 2008, Hurricane Ike completely destroyed the platforms and wells on Eugene Island 339. Chevron has completed the work required to clear the remaining infrastructure and abandon existing wells, with estimated costs to the Original Royalty relating thereto of approximately $19.8 million, approximately $19.76 million of which had been incurred through March 1, 2014. In December 2009, Chevron and Arena entered into the Arena Agreement, pursuant to which Arena could earn an assignment of 65% of Chevron's working interests in Eugene Island 338 and Eugene Island 339 following completion of certain drilling and development operations. Following completion of the first well on Eugene Island 339 by Arena and other drilling and development operations in the fourth quarter of 2012, Chevron assigned 65% of Chevron's working interests in Eugene Island 338 and Eugene Island 339 to Arena, effective as of December 15, 2009, the effective date of the Arena Agreement. Consistent with the Conveyance and in accordance with the Arena Agreement, the working interest assigned to Arena is not burdened by the Original Royalty, and the Royalty held by the Partnership with respect to such properties has been reduced proportionately. As a result of such assignment, the Royalty held by the Partnership on Eugene Island 339 has been reduced by 65%. For additional information, see "Trustee's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operations." If development and production costs of the Royalty exceed the proceeds of production from the Royalty Properties, the Trust will not receive Net Proceeds until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest, at a rate equal to one-fourth of (i) one-half of one percent plus (ii) the median between the prime interest rate at the end of a quarterly period in which there are excess costs and the prime interest rate at the end of the preceding quarterly period, during the deficit period. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs. Accordingly, there may not be sufficient Net Proceeds to make a particular distribution. 31 Table of Contents Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimates of reserves and estimated future revenues to be too high or too low. The value of the Units depends upon, among other things, the amount of reserves attributable to the Royalty and the estimated future value of the reserves. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the underlying properties will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include: •historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; •the assumed effect of governmental regulation; •assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures; •the availability of enhanced recovery techniques; and •relationships with landowners, working interest partners, pipeline companies and others. Changes in these factors and assumptions can materially change reserve estimates and future net revenue estimates. The reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty and revenues are based on estimates of reserves and revenues for the Royalty Properties. The method of allocating a portion of those reserves to the Trust is complicated because the Trust, indirectly through the Partnership, holds an interest in the Royalty and does not own a specific percentage of the reserves. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Royalty Properties, and therefore actual net proceeds payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of those estimates may require substantial downward revisions or write- downs of reserves. The Trustees also rely entirely on reserve estimates and related information prepared by Chevron, the other Working Interest Owners and the independent reserve engineer engaged by the Partnership. While the Trustees have no reason to believe the reserve estimates included in this Form 10-K are inaccurate, to the extent additional information exists that could affect the reserve estimates of Chevron, the other Working Interest Owners and the independent reserve engineer, the estimated reserves in this Form 10-K may not accurately reflect the actual quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Operating risks for the Working Interest Owners' interests in the Royalty Properties can adversely affect the Royalty and Trust distributions. There are operational risks and hazards associated with the production and transportation of natural gas, including without limitation natural disasters, blowouts, explosions, fires, leakage of natural gas, releases of other hazardous materials, mechanical failures, cratering and pollution. Any of these or similar occurrences could result in the interruption or cessation of operations, personal injury or loss of life, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment, damage to the environment of natural resources, or cleanup obligations. The occurrence of drilling, production or transportation accidents and natural disasters at any of the Royalty Properties will reduce Trust distributions by the amount of uninsured costs. These accidents may result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. Offshore activities are also subject to a variety of additional operating risks, such as hurricanes and other weather disturbances. Any uninsured costs would be deducted as a production cost in calculating net proceeds payable to the Trust. 32 Table of Contents Terrorism and other hostilities could decrease Trust distributions or the market price of the units of beneficial interest of the Trust. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism and other sustained military campaigns could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the Units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators developing the underlying properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. The operators of the working interests are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Offshore oil and gas operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. These regulations and changes in regulations could have a material adverse effect on Royalty income payable to the Trust. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could adversely affect Trust distributions Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse gas emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. Legislative and regulatory measures to address concerns that emissions of greenhouse gases are contributing to climate change are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels. EPA has determined that greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment because, according to EPA, they contribute to global warming and climate change. As a result, EPA has begun to regulate certain large sources of greenhouse gases, adopted motor vehicle greenhouse gas standards (the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil) and recently adopted rules that will require the so called green completion of hydraulically fractured natural gas wells. In addition, EPA has issues regulations requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from certain sources which include offshore oil and natural gas production facilities. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on the Royalty Property operations if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on the Royalty Property operations. In addition to potential impacts on the Royalty Property operations directly or indirectly resulting from climate- change legislation or regulations, the Royalty Property operations also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. The Trustees and the Unit holders have no control over the operation or development of the Royalty Properties and have little influence over operation or development. Neither the Trustees nor the Unit holders can influence or control the operation or future development of the underlying properties. The Royalty Properties are owned by independent Working 33 Table of Contents Interest Owners. The Working Interest Owners manage the underlying properties and handle receipt and payment of funds relating to the Royalty Properties and payments to the Trust for the Royalty. Information regarding operations provided by the Working Interest Owners has been subject to errors and adjustments, some of which have been significant. Accordingly, the Trustees cannot assure Unit holders that other errors or adjustments by Working Interest Owners, whether historical or future, will not affect future Royalty income and distributions by the Trust. The current Working Interest Owners are under no obligation to continue operating the properties. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. Neither the Trustees nor the Unit holders have the right to replace an operator. The Trustees rely upon the Working Interest Owners and Managing General Partner for information regarding the Royalty Properties. The Trustees rely on the Working Interest Owners and the Managing General Partner of the Partnership for information regarding the Royalty Properties. The Working Interest Owners alone control (i) historical operating data, including production volumes, marketing of products, operating and capital expenditures, environmental and other liabilities, effects of regulatory changes and the number of producing wells and acreage, (ii) plans for future operating and capital expenditures, (iii) geological data relating to reserves, as well as related projections regarding production, operating expenses and capital expenses used in connection with the preparation of the reserve study, (iv) forward-looking information relating to production and drilling plans and (v) information regarding the Royalty Properties responsive to litigation claims. While the Trustees request material information for use in periodic reports as part of its disclosure controls and procedures, the Trustees do not control this information and rely entirely on the Working Interest Owners to provide accurate and timely information when requested for use in the Trust's periodic reports. The Trustees also rely on the Managing General Partner of the Partnership to collect certain information from the Working Interest Owners and do not have any direct contact with the Working Interest Owners other than the Managing General Partner. Under the terms of the Trust Indenture, the Trustees are entitled to rely, and in fact rely, on certain experts in good faith. While the Trustees have no reason to believe their reliance on experts is unreasonable, this reliance on experts and limited access to information may be viewed as a weakness as compared to the management and oversight of entity forms other than trusts. The owner of any Royalty Property may abandon any property, terminating the related Royalty. The Working Interest Owners may at any time transfer all or part of the Royalty Properties to another unrelated third-party. Unit holders are not entitled to vote on any transfer, and the Trust will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the Royalty Properties will continue to be subject to the Royalty, but the Net Proceeds from the transferred property would be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee would be responsible for all of the obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to the Trust the Royalty on the transferred portion of the Royalty Properties, and the current owner of the Royalty Properties would have no continuing obligation to the Trust for those properties. The current Working Interest Owners or any transferee may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the Royalty relating to the abandoned well. Generally, if production ceases from an outer continental shelf lease, like that for Eugene Island 339, production must be restored or drilling operations must commence within 180 days of the cessation of production (which was in early March 2009 with respect to Eugene Island 339 given the 34 Table of Contents cessation of production in September 2008 resulting from Hurricane Ike), or the lease will be terminated. Alternatively, an operator of a lease may seek a Suspension of Production, or "SOP", that, if approved by the regional supervisor of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management ("BOEM"), allows additional time to restore production in the event of certain circumstances, such as hurricanes and other events beyond the control of the operator. Although Chevron successfully obtained a series of SOPs and, with the participation of Arena, obtained additional SOPs resulting in the restoration of limited production at Eugene Island 339, other Working Interest Owners have been unable to timely restore production or obtain an SOP and as a result, many of the leases covering the Royalty Properties have been terminated or expired thereby reducing the proceeds payable to the Trust. The Royalty can be sold and the Trust can be terminated. The Trust will be terminated and the Trustees must sell the Royalty if holders of a majority of the Units approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust, or if the total future net revenues attributable to the Royalty, determined by the independent reserve engineer as of December 31 of the prior year, are less than $1.2 million (assuming no further sales of any interests in the Royalty). Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the Unit holders and Unit holders will receive no further distributions from the Trust. In addition, if the Trust does not have sufficient funds to pay the liabilities of the Trust, the Trustees may take certain actions on behalf of the Trust that could materially impact the Unit holders. Such actions include borrowing money, selling all or a part of the Trust's interest in the Partnership, exercising their rights to dissolve the Partnership or causing a sale by the Partnership of the Royalty owned by the Partnership. On October 27, 2011, the Trust issued a press release announcing that the Partnership had consummated the 2011 Royalty Sale, which generated $1,600,000 in gross proceeds and occurred as part of a formal auction process for the Partnership's overriding royalty interest in the Royalty Properties. The Trust received from the Partnership a distribution of approximately $1,485,851, representing 99.99% of the net proceeds from the sale of $1,486,000. The Trust used such net proceeds solely for the payment of expenses of the Trust. The 2011 Royalty Sale was made to RNR Production on October 27, 2011, though the assignment was effective as of August 1, 2011. On October 31, 2013, the Trust issued a press release announcing that the Partnership had consummated the 2013 Royalty Sale, which generated $1,200,000 in gross proceeds and occurred as part of a formal auction process for the Partnership's remaining overriding royalty interest in the Royalty Properties. The Trust received from the Partnership a distribution of approximately $1,151,885, representing 99.99% of the net proceeds from the sale of $1,152,000. The Trust used approximately $300,000 of the net proceeds received in October 2013 to repay the Trust's indebtedness under the Note and has used, and will continue to use, the remaining net proceeds solely for the payment of expenses of the Trust. Following the 2013 Royalty Sale, the Partnership has retained a 60% interest in the Original Royalty, and thus the Partnership will receive in the future only 15% of the Net Proceeds when there are sufficient Net Proceeds for distribution on the Partnership's Royalty. The 2013 Royalty Sale to RNR Production closed on October 31, 2013, though the assignment was effective as of August 1, 2013. For more information, see "—Termination of the Trust" under Item 1 of this Form 10-K and "Trustee's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" under Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Trust assets are depleting assets and, if the Working Interest Owners or other operators of the Royalty Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. The Net Proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of 35 Table of Contents capital. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Royalty Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of natural gas. If operators of the Royalty Properties do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. For federal income tax purposes, depletion is reflected as a deduction. Please see the section entitled "—Description of the Units—Federal Income Tax Matters" under Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Because the Net Proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to the Unit holders, which could reduce the market value of the Units over time. Eventually, properties underlying the Trust's Royalty will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of Net Proceeds therefrom. Unit holders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a Unit holder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unit holders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustees. Additionally, Unit holders have no voting rights in the Working Interest Owners. Unlike corporations, which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a Corporate Trustee and three Individual Trustees in accordance with the Trust Agreement and other organizational documents. The Trustees have extremely limited discretion in their administration of the Trust. Unit holders have limited ability to enforce the Trust's rights against the current or future owners of the Royalty Properties. The Trust Agreement and related trust law permit the Trustees and the Trust to sue the Working Interest Owners to compel them to fulfill the terms of the Conveyance. If the Trustees do not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the Conveyance, the recourse of a Unit holder would likely be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustees to compel the Trustees to take specified actions. Unit holders probably would not be able to sue the Working Interest Owners directly. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There were no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission comments as of December 31, 2013. 