Item 1A. Risk Factors. Although risk factors are described elsewhere in this Form 10-K together with specific forward-looking statements, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in Units in the Trust. The Trust continues to utilize its cash reserves to pay expenses, and there are not likely to be Net Proceeds distributed to the Trust for the foreseeable future. Absent the receipt of Net Proceeds, or other actions being taken, at some time in the early part of the second quarter of 2011, the Trust will not have sufficient funds to pay the liabilities of the Trust. As such, the Trustees may take certain actions on behalf of the Trust that could materially impact the Unit holders, including borrowing money, causing the sale by the Partnership of the Royalty owned by the Partnership, selling all or a part of the Trust's interest in the Partnership or exercising the Trustees' rights to dissolve the Partnership. The Trust's source of capital is the Royalty income received from its share of the Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties. The Trust has not received a distribution of Net Proceeds since December 2008, and there are not likely to be positive Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties for the foreseeable future. The Trust continues to utilize its cash reserves to pay expenses; however, as of December 31, 2010, those reserves were approximately 39% of the average annual expenses of the Trust during the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. Chevron offered to the Trustees in February 2011 that, based on then present production forecasts, the possibility of distributions being made to the Partnership would likely begin in 2013. However, there can be no assurance by Chevron or anyone else as to the actual timing for any future distributions to the Partnership from the Royalty, and distributions could recommence some time before, during or after 2013, and there is no guarantee that any further distributions will be made. Absent the receipt of Net Proceeds, or other actions being taken, at some time in the early part of the second quarter of 2011, the Trust will not have sufficient funds to pay the liabilities of the Trust. As such, the Trustees may take certain actions on behalf of the Trust that could materially impact the Unit holders. Such actions include borrowing money, causing a sale by the Partnership of all or a part of the Royalty owned by the Partnership, selling all or a part of the Trust's interest in the Partnership or exercising the Trustees' rights to dissolve the Partnership. On March 11, 2011, the Trustees provided written notice to Chevron that, pursuant to the Trust Agreement, the Trust needs funds to pay for liabilities of the Trust and that the Trustees therefore instructed Chevron, as the Managing General Partner of the Partnership, to sell such portion, and only such portion, of the Royalty that will provide the Trust with a current distribution equal to $2,000,000 from the proceeds of such sale. The Trustees are also seeking a loan to the Trust to be able to pay liabilities of the Trust. There can be no assurance that such a loan will be obtained or that such a sale of interests in the Royalty can be consummated or that $2,000,000 in proceeds can be obtained, or as to the terms, conditions and timing of such a loan or of the sale of interests in the Royalty. For more information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" under Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Production from Eugene Island 339 and Ship Shoal 182 and 183, the two most significant Royalty Properties, ceased following damage inflicted by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. While oil and natural gas production at Ship Shoal 182 and 183 was restored in 2009, there can be no assurance that production will be restored at Eugene Island 339. Chevron's failure or inability to pursue redevelopment of Eugene Island 339, and on the timeframes previously approved by the BOEM, could result in a loss of the lease. Based on the damage caused by Hurricane Ike, the Trust's scheduled distribution for the fourth quarter of 2008 was severely negatively impacted and there were no distributions during 2009, 2010 or the first quarter of 2011. If development and production costs of the Royalty exceed the proceeds of production from the Royalty Properties, the Trust will not receive Net Proceeds until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay such costs. Accordingly, there will not be sufficient Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties to make 28 Table of Contents distributions for some period of time in the future. As of December 31, 2010, development and production costs of the Royalty exceeded the proceeds of production from the Royalty Properties by approximately $3.5 million. Significant development and production costs will continue to be incurred as Eugene Island 339 is redeveloped. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operations and—Liquidity and Capital Resources" under Item 7 of this Form 10-K." The platforms and wells on Eugene Island 339 were completely destroyed by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. Chevron is working on the plugging and abandonment of the existing wells, clearing debris and otherwise dealing with the remaining infrastructure, which activities are not expected to be completed until the second quarter of 2012. Chevron has informed the Corporate Trustee that Chevron presently intends to pursue the redevelopment of platforms and wells at Eugene Island 339 in accordance with the terms and conditions established by the BOEM in response to Chevron's submission to the BOEM of a program to restore production at Eugene Island 339. Chevron has informed the Corporate Trustee that Chevron has received a Suspension of Production, or "SOP", from the BOEM, for Eugene Island 339 through October 31, 2011, as long as certain SOP milestones are met. The SOP provides for the staged redevelopment of Eugene Island 339 and the adjacent lease, Eugene Island 338 (which is not a property subject to the overriding royalty interest held by the Partnership), as a single development project, contingent upon meeting certain obligations established in the SOP. Chevron is required to provide the BOEM with periodic updates on Chevron's progress and to meet each of the SOP activity schedule deadlines to maintain the SOP. Although the SOP formally expires on October 31, 2011, the BOEM has acknowledged that production is not scheduled to be restored at Eugene Island until October 2012. Therefore, Chevron must submit, and obtain approval by the regional supervisor of the BOEM of, an additional SOP request prior to October 31, 2011 to obtain BOEM authority for any redevelopment of Eugene Island 338 and 339 after October 31, 2011. While Chevron has stated that it intends to redevelop Eugene Island 338 and 339, and has met the activity schedule obligations under the SOP through December 31, 2010, there is no obligation upon Chevron to continue to pursue such redevelopment. Failure or inability to pursue such a redevelopment, or to satisfy the activity schedule approved by the BOEM, could result in a loss of the lease covering Eugene Island 339. At this time, there is and can be no assurance that each activity schedule date will be met or that an additional SOP will be approved by the BOEM or that production will be restored at Eugene Island 339. The costs for the redevelopment plan would be significant. If Production Costs of the Royalty exceed the Gross Proceeds from the Royalty Properties, the Trust will not receive Net Proceeds until future Gross Proceeds exceed the total of the Production Costs plus accrued interest. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay such costs. Accordingly, there will not be sufficient Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties to make distributions for some period of time in the future. As of December 31, 2010, Production Costs of the Royalty exceeded the Gross Proceeds from the Royalty Properties by approximately $3.5 million. In the fourth quarter of 2010, Chevron withdrew $4,304,894 from the Special Cost Escrow account of the Working Interest Owners (a reserve fund for certain costs) to cover expenses incurred in connection with the plugging and abandonment of Eugene Island 339, which served to reduce the amount by which production costs exceeded the proceeds from production as of December 31, 2010; however, additional deposits to the Special Cost Escrow account would be required in future periods in accordance with the terms of the Conveyance if, and when, Net Proceeds would otherwise be payable on the Royalty. Production at Ship Shoal 182/183 ceased following damage inflicted by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. While the hurricane caused limited surface damage to the facilities at Ship Shoal 182/183, all of the wells at Ship Shoal 182/183 were shut-in following hurricane-related damage to a third-party transporter's natural gas pipeline. A limited volume of oil production was restored in November 2008. The volume of oil production that can be produced is limited by the amount of gas that is also produced by the oil wells. The third-party transporter's natural gas pipeline repairs were 29 Table of Contents completed and gas sales at Ship Shoal 182/183 were restored on June 26, 2009. However, the pipeline was shut down in mid-September 2009 for additional repairs. Production sales for both oil and natural gas at Ship Shoal 182 and 183 were restored on October 8, 2009 following completion of such additional repairs. Oil and gas production at Ship Shoal 182/183 ceased in March 2010 due to a leak in the oil pipeline that services Ship Shoal 182/183. Such oil pipeline has since been repaired and Ship Shoal 182/183 was reopened on May 1, 2010 after a 36-day shut-in. In addition, production from West Cameron 643 and East Cameron 371 ceased following damage inflicted by Hurricane Ike in September 2008 to third-party transporters' pipelines. Chevron, as the Managing General Partner of the Partnership, understands that, as a result of the cessation of production at West Cameron 643 due to the damages inflicted by Hurricane Ike to a third-party transporter's pipeline, Hilcorp submitted to the BOEM a program to restore production at West Cameron 643 and that such request was granted. The approval by the BOEM expired by its terms on May 31, 2010, and Chevron has been informed by Hilcorp that it submitted to the BOEM a request for an extension but that such request was denied. Accordingly, the lease for West Cameron 643 expired on May 31, 2010. Chevron has been informed by Hilcorp that there is a deadline of June 1, 2011 to plug and abandon the wells and related infrastructure at West Cameron 643. The field operator for East Cameron 371 has reported to Chevron that a review of the remaining reserves for East Cameron 371 has been conducted, and that the wells at East Cameron 371 have been depleted. The lease for East Cameron 371 expired on March 31, 2010 and the field operator has informed Chevron that field abandonment work, including the related wells, equipment platforms and any field infrastructure, is expected to commence mid 2011, after the operator received an extension of the one-year deadline to complete such abandonment work. For additional information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operations." Based on the damage caused by Hurricane Ike, the Trust's scheduled distribution for the fourth quarter of 2008 was severely negatively impacted and no distributions have been made to Unit holders since January 9, 2009. There are not likely to be positive Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties for the foreseeable future. Chevron offered to the Trustees in February 2011 that, based on then present production forecasts, the possibility of distributions being made to the Partnership would likely begin in 2013. However, there can be no assurance by Chevron or anyone else as to the actual timing for any future distributions to the Partnership from the Royalty, and distributions could recommence some time before, during or after 2013, and there is no guarantee that any further distributions will be made. At this time, the ultimate outcome of the various matters cannot be determined with any degree of certainty. The Deepwater Horizon incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on the Royalty income. On April 22, 2010, a deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico drilling rig, the Deepwater Horizon, sank after a blowout and fire at the Macondo wellsite. In response to such incident, the BOEM, among other things, issued Notices to Lessees, or "NTLs," implementing additional safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, imposed additional requirements with respect to development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and has delayed the approval of applications to drill in both deep-water and shallow-water areas. To the extent this incident has resulted in, or will result in, federal legislation, policy, restrictions, or regulations that cause delays or deter new drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, or that increase the costs of offshore production, the Royalty income could be materially adversely affected. We cannot predict at this time the impact, if any, that this incident may have on the operations of the Royalty Properties, particularly a redevelopment of Eugene Island 339, the Royalty income payable to the Trust or on the financial condition of the Trust. However, drilling activity associated with the redevelopment of Eugene Island 339 was suspended, the drilling rig moved off location and the redevelopment plan 30 Table of Contents modified given Chevron's inability to obtain drilling permits in a timely basis under the new guidelines issued by the BOEM on June 8, 2010 pursuant to NTL No. 2010-N05, "Increased Safety Measures for Energy Development on the OCS" following the Deepwater Horizon incident. Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce Net Proceeds available to the Trust and distributions to Trust Unit holders. Net Proceeds and the Trust's quarterly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas and oil. Natural gas and oil prices can fluctuate widely on a month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and the Working Interest Owners. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others: •political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war and other armed conflict in oil producing regions such as North Africa and the Middle East; •worldwide economic conditions; •weather conditions; •the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas; •the level of consumer demand; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; •the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and •the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas and oil transportation and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term. Crude oil prices have been volatile the last several years and, in 2010, ranged from a high of approximately $91.50 to a low of approximately $68.00 The Trust cannot predict the timing or the duration of any economic cycle and, depending on the prices realized, the financial condition of the Trust could be materially adversely affected. When natural gas and oil prices decline, the Trust is affected in two ways. First, net royalties are reduced. Second, exploration and development activities on the underlying properties may decline as some projects may become uneconomic and are either delayed or cancelled. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unit holders. Substantially all of the natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the Royalty Properties operated by Chevron is being sold to Chevron Natural Gas at spot market prices. Substantially all of the crude oil produced by the Royalty Properties operated by Chevron is being sold to subsidiaries of Chevron Corporation based on pricing bulletins. Increased production and development costs for the Royalty will result in decreased or no Trust distributions. Production and development costs attributable to the Royalty are deducted in the calculation of the Trust's share of Net Proceeds. Production and development costs are impacted by increases in commodity prices both directly and indirectly, through commodity-price dependent costs such as electricity, and indirectly, as a result of demand-driven increases in costs of oilfield goods and services. Accordingly, higher or lower production and development costs, without concurrent increases in revenues, directly decrease or increase the amount received by the Trust for the Royalty. In September 2008, Hurricane Ike completely destroyed the platforms and wells on Eugene Island 339. Chevron is proceeding to plug and abandon the existing wells, to clear debris and otherwise to deal with the remaining infrastructure, with estimated costs to the Trust relating thereto of 31 Table of Contents approximately $13 million, and without giving credit for an expected approximately $612,000 of insurance proceeds received by Chevron and to be allocated for the benefit of the Partnership with respect to Eugene Island 339. Chevron has informed the Corporate Trustee that Chevron presently intends to pursue the redevelopment of platforms and wells at Eugene Island 339 in accordance with the terms and conditions established by the BOEM in response to Chevron's submission to the BOEM of a program to restore production at Eugene Island 339. The costs for the redevelopment would be significant. At this time, there can be no assurance that production at Eugene Island 339 will be restored. For additional information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operations." If development and production costs of the Royalty exceed the proceeds of production from the Royalty Properties, the Trust will not receive Net Proceeds until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest, at a rate equal to one-fourth of (i) one-half of one percent plus (ii) the median between the prime interest rate at the end of a quarterly period in which there are excess costs and the prime interest rate at the end of the preceding quarterly period, during the deficit period. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs. Accordingly, there may not be sufficient Net Proceeds to make a particular distribution. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimates of reserves and estimated future revenues to be too high or too low. The value of the Units depends upon, among other things, the amount of reserves attributable to the Royalty and the estimated future value of the reserves. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the underlying properties will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include: •historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; •the assumed effect of governmental regulation; •assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures; •the availability of enhanced recovery techniques; and •relationships with landowners, working interest partners, pipeline companies and others. Changes in these factors and assumptions can materially change reserve estimates and future net revenue estimates. The reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty and revenues are based on estimates of reserves and revenues for the Royal Properties. The method of allocating a portion of those reserves to the Trust is complicated because the Trust, indirectly through the Partnership, holds an interest in the Royalty and does not own a specific percentage of the reserves. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Royalty Properties, and therefore actual net proceeds payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of those estimates may require substantial downward revisions or write-downs of reserves. The Trustees also rely entirely on reserve estimates and related information prepared by Chevron, the other Working Interest Owners and the independent reserve engineer engaged by the Partnership. While the Trustees have no reason to believe the reserve estimates included in this Form 10-K are inaccurate, to the extent additional information exists that could affect the reserve estimates of 32 Table of Contents Chevron, the other Working Interest Owners and the independent reserve engineer, the estimated reserves in this Form 10-K could also be too low. Operating risks for the Working Interest Owners' interests in the Royalty Properties can adversely affect the Royalty and Trust distributions. There are operational risks and hazards associated with the production and transportation of natural gas, including without limitation natural disasters, blowouts, explosions, fires, leakage of natural gas, releases of other hazardous materials, mechanical failures, cratering and pollution. Any of these or similar occurrences could result in the interruption or cessation of operations, personal injury or loss of life, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment, damage to the environment of natural resources, or cleanup obligations. The occurrence of drilling, production or transportation accidents and natural disasters at any of the Royalty Properties will reduce Trust distributions by the amount of uninsured costs. These accidents may result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. Offshore activities are also subject to a variety of additional operating risks, such as hurricanes and other weather disturbances. Any uninsured costs would be deducted as a production cost in calculating net proceeds payable to the Trust. As described in this report, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage during 2005. All but one of the platforms and facilities on the Royalty Properties were restored during 2006 and 2007. As also described in the report, production from the two most significant oil and gas properties associated with the Trust ceased following damage inflicted by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. The platforms and wells on Eugene Island 339 were completely destroyed. While Hurricane Ike caused limited damage to the facilities at Ship Shoal 182 and 183, all of the wells at Ship Shoal 182 and 183 were shut-in following hurricane related damage to a third-party transporter's natural gas pipeline. Terrorism and hostilities in the Middle East could decrease Trust distributions or the market price of the units of beneficial interest of the Trust. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism and other sustained military campaigns could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the Units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators developing the underlying properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. The operators of the working interests are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Offshore oil and gas operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. These regulations and changes in regulations could have a material adverse effect on Royalty income payable to the Trust. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could adversely affect Trust distributions Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse gas emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. Legislative and regulatory measures to address concerns that emissions 33 Table of Contents of greenhouse gases are contributing to climate change are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels. The EPA is taking steps that would result in the regulation of greenhouse gases as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. The EPA has issued an "Endangerment Finding" final rule, effective January 14, 2010, which states the current and projected concentrations of six key greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, as well as emissions from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines, that threaten public health and welfare, and allowed the EPA to finalize motor vehicle greenhouse gas standards effective January 2, 2011 (the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil). According to the EPA, the final motor vehicle greenhouse gas standards trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. As a result, the EPA has proposed to tailor these programs such that only large stationary sources will be required to have air permits that authorize greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the EPA has issued a "Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases" final rule, effective December 29, 2009, which establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources in the United States emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gases to inventory and report their greenhouse gas emissions annually. In November 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding this reporting rule to onshore and offshore petroleum and natural gas systems beginning in 2012 for emissions in 2011. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on the Royalty Property operations if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on the Royalty Property operations. In addition to potential impacts on the Royalty Property operations directly or indirectly resulting from climate- change legislation or regulations, the Royalty Property operations also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. The Trustees and the Unit holders have no control over the operation or development of the Royalty Properties and have little influence over operation or development. Neither the Trustees nor the Unit holders can influence or control the operation or future development of the underlying properties. The Royalty Properties are owned by independent Working Interest Owners. The Working Interest Owners manage the underlying properties and handle receipt and payment of funds relating to the Royalty Properties and payments to the Trust for the Royalty. Information regarding operations provided by the Working Interest Owners has been subject to errors and adjustments, some of which have been significant. Accordingly, the Trustees cannot assure Unit holders that other errors or adjustments by Working Interest Owners, whether historical or future, will not affect future Royalty income and distributions by the Trust. The current Working Interest Owners are under no obligation to continue operating the properties. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. Neither the Trustees nor the Unit holders have the right to replace an operator. 34 Table of Contents The Trustees rely upon the Working Interest Owners and Managing General Partner for information regarding the Royalty Properties. The Trustees rely on the Working Interest Owners and the Managing General Partner of the Partnership for information regarding the Royalty Properties. The Working Interest Owners alone control (i) historical operating data, including production volumes, marketing of products, operating and capital expenditures, environmental and other liabilities, effects of regulatory changes and the number of producing wells and acreage, (ii) plans for future operating and capital expenditures, (iii) geological data relating to reserves, as well as related projections regarding production, operating expenses and capital expenses used in connection with the preparation of the reserve study, (iv) forward-looking information relating to production and drilling plans and (v) information regarding the Royalty Properties responsive to litigation claims. While the Trustees request material information for use in periodic reports as part of its disclosure controls and procedures, the Trustees do not control this information and rely entirely on the Working Interest Owners to provide accurate and timely information when requested for use in the Trust's periodic reports. The Trustees also rely on the Managing General Partner of the Partnership to collect certain information from the Working Interest Owners and do not have any direct contact with the Working Interest Owners other than the Managing General Partner. Under the terms of the Trust Indenture, the Trustees are entitled to rely, and in fact rely, on certain experts in good faith. While the Trustees have no reason to believe their reliance on experts is unreasonable, this reliance on experts and limited access to information may be viewed as a weakness as compared to the management and oversight of entity forms other than trusts. The owner of any Royalty Property may abandon any property, terminating the related Royalty. The Working Interest Owners may at any time transfer all or part of the Royalty Properties to another unrelated third-party. Unit holders are not entitled to vote on any transfer, and the Trust will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the Royalty Properties will continue to be subject to the Royalty, but the Net Proceeds from the transferred property would be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee would be responsible for all of the obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to the Trust the Royalty on the transferred portion of the Royalty Properties, and the current owner of the Royalty Properties would have no continuing obligation to the Trust for those properties. The current Working Interest Owners or any transferee may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the Royalty relating to the abandoned well. Generally, if production ceases from an outer continental shelf lease, like that for Eugene Island 339, production must be restored or drilling operations must commence within 180 days of the cessation (which was in early March 2009 with respect to Eugene Island 339 given the cessation of production in September 2008 resulting from Hurricane Ike), or the lease will be terminated. Alternatively, an operator of a lease may seek an SOP, that, if approved by the regional supervisor of the BOEM, allows additional time to restore production in the event of certain circumstances, such as hurricanes and other events beyond the control of the operator. Chevron, as the operator of Eugene Island 339, sought and obtained an SOP for Eugene Island 339 for the period from December 1, 2010 through October 31, 2011. Chevron had previously sought and obtained a SOP providing for the staged redevelopment of Eugene Island 339 and the adjacent lease, Eugene Island 338 (which is not a property subject to the overriding royalty interest held by the Partnership), as a single development project, contingent upon meeting certain obligations established in the SOP. Such initial SOP extended the lease on Eugene Island 339 until November 30, 2010. The new December 1, 2010 through October 31, 2011 SOP extends the lease on Eugene Island 339 until October 31, 2011, as long as certain SOP milestones are met. Although the new December 1, 2010 through October 31, 2011 SOP formally expires on October 31, 2011, the BOEM has acknowledged that production is not scheduled to 35 Table of Contents be restored at Eugene Island until October 2012. Therefore, Chevron must submit, and obtain approval by the regional supervisor of the BOEM of, an additional SOP request prior to October 31, 2011 to obtain BOEM authority for any redevelopment of Eugene Island 338 and 339 after October 31, 2011. While Chevron has stated that it intends to redevelop Eugene Island 338 and 339, there is no obligation upon Chevron to continue to pursue such redevelopment. Failure or inability to pursue such a redevelopment, or to satisfy the activity schedule approved by the BOEM, could result in a loss of the lease covering Eugene Island 339. At this time, there is and can be no assurance that each activity schedule date will be met or that an additional SOP will be approved by the BOEM or that production will be restored at Eugene Island 339. The Royalty can be sold and the Trust can be terminated. The Trust will be terminated and the Trustees must sell the Royalty if holders of a majority of the Units approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust, or if the total future net revenues attributable to the Royalty, determined by the independent reserve engineer as of December 31 of the prior year, are less than $2 million. Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the Unit holders and Unit holders will receive no further distributions from the Trust. In addition, if the Trust does not have sufficient funds to pay the liabilities of the Trust, the Trustees may take certain actions on behalf of the Trust that could materially impact the Unit holders. Such actions include borrowing money, selling all or a part of the Trust's interest in the Partnership, exercising their rights to dissolve the Partnership or causing a sale by the Partnership of the Royalty owned by the Partnership. On March 11, 2011, the Trustees provided written notice to Chevron that, pursuant to the Trust Agreement, the Trust needs funds to pay for liabilities of the Trust and that the Trustees therefore instructed Chevron, as the Managing General Partner of the Partnership, to sell such portion, and only such portion, of the Royalty that will provide the Trust with a current distribution equal to $2,000,000 from the proceeds of such sale. The Trustees are also seeking a loan to the Trust to be able to pay liabilities of the Trust. There can be no assurance that such a loan will be obtained or that such a sale of interests in the Royalty can be consummated or that $2,000,000 in proceeds can be obtained, or as to the terms, conditions and timing of such a loan or of the sale of interests in the Royalty. For more information, see "—Termination of the Trust" under Item 1 of this Form 10-K and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" under Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Trust assets are depleting assets and, if the Working Interest Owners or other operators of the Royalty Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. The Net Proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Royalty Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of natural gas. If operators of the Royalty Properties do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. For federal income tax purposes, depletion is reflected as a deduction, which is dependent upon the purchase price of a Units. Please see the section entitled "—Description of the Units—Federal Income Tax Matters" under Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Because the Net Proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to the Unit holders, which could reduce the market value of the Units over time. Eventually, properties underlying the Trust's Royalty will cease to produce in 36 Table of Contents commercial quantities and the Trust will, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of Net Proceeds therefrom. Unit holders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a Unit holder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unit holders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustees. Additionally, Unit holders have no voting rights in the Working Interest Owners. Unlike corporations which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a Corporate Trustee and three Individual Trustees in accordance with the Trust Agreement and other organizational documents. The Trustees have extremely limited discretion in their administration of the Trust. Unit holders have limited ability to enforce the Trust's rights against the current or future owners of the Royalty Properties. The Trust Agreement and related trust law permit the Trustees and the Trust to sue the Working Interest Owners to compel them to fulfill the terms of the Conveyance of the Royalty. If the Trustees do not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the Conveyance, the recourse of a Unit holder would likely be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustees to compel the Trustees to take specified actions. Unit holders probably would not be able to sue the Working Interest Owners directly. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There were no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission comments as of December 31, 2010. 