Item 1A. Risk Factors. Although risk factors are described elsewhere in this Form 10-K together with specific forward-looking statements, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in Units in the Trust. Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce Net Proceeds available to the Trust and distributions to Trust Unit holders. The Trust's quarterly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas and oil, and a material decrease in such prices could reduce the amount of Trust distributions. Natural gas and oil prices can fluctuate widely on a month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and the Working Interest Owners. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others: •political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war and other armed conflict in oil producing regions such as Iraq; •worldwide economic conditions; •weather conditions; 26 Table of Contents •the supply and price of foreign natural gas; •the level of consumer demand; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; •the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and •the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas and oil transportation and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term. Given the recent economic downturn, crude oil prices have been volatile and, in 2009, ranged from a high of $81.37 to a low of $33.98. The Trust cannot predict the timing or the duration of this or any other economic downturn in the economy and if the current conditions continue, the financial condition of the Trust could be materially adversely affected. When natural gas and oil prices decline, the Trust is affected in two ways. First, net royalties are reduced. Second, exploration and development activities on the underlying properties may decline as some projects may become uneconomic and are either delayed or cancelled. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unit holders. Substantially all of the natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the Royalty Properties is being sold to Chevron Natural Gas at spot market prices. Substantially all of the crude oil produced by the Royalty Properties is being sold to subsidiaries of Chevron Corporation based on pricing bulletins. Production from Eugene Island 339 and Ship Shoal 182 and 183, the two most significant Royalty Properties, ceased following damage inflicted by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. While oil and natural gas production at Ship Shoal 182 and 183 was restored in 2009, there can be no assurance that production will be restored at Eugene Island 339. Chevron's failure or inability to pursue redevelopment of Eugene Island 339, and on the timeframes approved by the MMS, could result in a loss of the lease. Based on the damage caused by Hurricane Ike, the Trust's scheduled distribution for the fourth quarter of 2008 was severely negatively impacted and there were no distributions during 2009 or the first quarter of 2010. If development and production costs of the Royalty exceed the proceeds of production from the Royalty Properties, the Trust will not receive Net Proceeds until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay such costs. Accordingly, there will not be sufficient Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties to make distributions for some period of time in the future. As of December 31, 2009, development and production costs of the Royalty exceeded the proceeds of production from the Royalty Properties by approximately $5.5 million. Significant development and production costs will continue to be incurred as Eugene Island 339 is redeveloped. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operations." The platforms and wells on Eugene Island 339 were destroyed by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. Chevron is working on the plugging and abandonment of the existing wells, clearing debris and otherwise dealing with the remaining infrastructure, which activities are not expected to be completed until the first quarter of 2012. Chevron has informed the Corporate Trustee that Chevron presently intends to pursue the redevelopment of platforms and wells at Eugene Island 339 in accordance with the terms and conditions established by the MMS in response to Chevron's submission to the MMS of a program to restore production at Eugene Island 339. The activity schedule approved by the MMS contemplates, among other things, commencement of front-end engineering and design work by the end of January 2010, which was so commenced, completion of the front-end engineering and design work by the end of July 2010, an awarding of fabrication contracts for platform, substructure and equipment by the end of November 2010, and commencement of production ultimately occurring by the end of October 2012. Chevron is required to provide the MMS with periodic updates on Chevron's 27 Table of Contents progress on such redevelopment. The approval by the MMS expires by its terms on November 30, 2010, and Chevron would need to request an extension of such approval from the MMS in order to complete the proposed redevelopment, given that the activity schedule contemplates activity through October 2012. Chevron recently entered into an agreement with a third party for the redevelopment of Eugene Island Blocks 338 and 339. Chevron is the operator of Eugene Island Block 338; however, this property is not a Royalty Property. Three wells are planned to be commenced from a common open water location at Eugene 338 in the second quarter of 2010. The information derived from these wells will be used, in part, to determine the size of the platform and topside facilities (production processing equipment) that are to cover both Eugene Island 338 and Eugene Island 339 as a common facility. If a platform is set, the current plan is to drill additional wells in Eugene Island 338 and Eugene Island 339. If Chevron determines that it is warranted, and the redevelopment plans are successful, first production at Eugene Island 339 is anticipated in the fourth quarter of 2012. Restoration of production at Eugene Island 338 and 339 is a complex process and cannot be assured at this time. If the initial three well drilling program is not successful, Chevron intends to reevaluate the redevelopment of Eugene Island 338 and 339. The costs for such a redevelopment would be significant. While Chevron has stated that it intends to pursue such a redevelopment, there is no obligation for Chevron to continue to pursue such redevelopment. Failure or inability to pursue such a redevelopment, and on the timeframes approved by the MMS, could result in a loss of the lease. At this time, there can be no assurance that production will be restored at Eugene Island 339. Production at Ship Shoal 182/183 ceased following damage inflicted by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. While the hurricane caused limited surface damage to the facilities at Ship Shoal 182/183, all of the wells at Ship Shoal 182/183 were shut-in following hurricane-related damage to a third-party transporter's natural gas pipeline. A limited volume of oil production was restored in November 2008. The volume of oil production that can be produced is limited by the amount of gas that is also produced by the oil wells. The third-party transporter's natural gas pipeline repairs were completed and gas sales at Ship Shoal 182/183 were restored on June 26, 2009. However, the pipeline was shut down in mid-September for additional repairs. Production sales for both oil and natural gas at Ship Shoal 182 and 183 were restored on October 8, 2009 following completion of such additional repairs. In addition, production from West Cameron 643 and East Cameron 371 ceased following damage inflicted by Hurricane Ike in September 2008 to third-party transporters' pipelines. Chevron, as the Managing General Partner of the Partnership, understands that, as a result of the cessation of production at West Cameron 643 due to the damages inflicted by Hurricane Ike to a third-party transporter's pipeline, Hilcorp submitted to the MMS a program to restore production at West Cameron 643 and that such request has been granted. Chevron also understands that the pipeline for West Cameron 643 is in the process of being restored, although such pipeline is not expected to be able to take production until at least the third quarter of 2010. At this point in time, there can be no assurance as to when, or if at all, production may be restored at West Cameron 643. The field operator for East Cameron 371 has reported to Chevron that a review of the remaining reserves for East Cameron 371 has been conducted, and that the wells at East Cameron 371 have been depleted. At this time, the field operator for East Cameron 371 has not made a decision regarding field abandonment, including the related wells, equipment platforms and any field infrastructure. For additional information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operations." Based on the damage caused by Hurricane Ike, the Trust's scheduled distribution for the fourth quarter of 2008 was severely negatively impacted and there were no distributions made to Unit holders during 2009 or the first quarter of 2010. Future distributions are also expected to be severely negatively impacted, and there may not be sufficient Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties to make one or more future distributions. At this time, the ultimate outcome of the various matters cannot be determined with any degree of certainty. 28 Table of Contents Increased production and development costs for the Royalty will result in decreased or no Trust distributions. Production and development costs attributable to the Royalty are deducted in the calculation of the Trust's share of Net Proceeds. Production and development costs are impacted by increases in commodity prices both directly and indirectly, through commodity-price dependent costs such as electricity, and indirectly, as a result of demand-driven increases in costs of oilfield goods and services. Accordingly, higher or lower production and development costs, without concurrent increases in revenues, directly decrease or increase the amount received by the Trust for the Royalty. In September 2008, Hurricane Ike completely destroyed the platforms and wells on Eugene Island 339. Chevron is proceeding to plug and abandon the existing wells, to clear debris and otherwise to deal with the remaining infrastructure, with estimated costs to the Trust relating thereto of approximately $13 million. Chevron has informed the Corporate Trustee that Chevron presently intends to pursue the redevelopment of platforms and wells at Eugene Island 339 in accordance with the terms and conditions established by the MMS in response to Chevron's submission to the MMS of a program to restore production at Eugene Island 339. At this time, there can be no assurance that production at Eugene Island 339 will be restored. For additional information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operations." If development and production costs of the Royalty exceed the proceeds of production from the Royalty Properties, the Trust will not receive Net Proceeds until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest, at a rate equal to one-fourth of (i) one-half of one percent plus (ii) the median between the prime interest rate at the end of a quarterly period in which there are excess costs and the prime interest rate at the end of the preceding quarterly period, during the deficit period. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs. Accordingly, there may not be sufficient Net Proceeds to make a particular distribution. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimates of reserves and estimated future revenues to be too high or too low. The value of the Units depends upon, among other things, the amount of reserves attributable to the Royalty and the estimated future value of the reserves. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the underlying properties will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include: •historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; •the assumed effect of governmental regulation; •assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures; •the availability of enhanced recovery techniques; and •relationships with landowners, working interest partners, pipeline companies and others. Changes in these factors and assumptions can materially change reserve estimates and future net revenue estimates. The reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty and revenues are based on estimates of reserves and revenues for the Royal Properties. The method of allocating a portion of those reserves to the Trust is complicated because the Trust, indirectly through the Partnership, holds an interest in the Royalty and does not own a specific percentage of the natural gas reserves. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Royalty Properties, and therefore actual net proceeds 29 Table of Contents payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of those estimates may require substantial downward revisions or write-downs of reserves. The Trustees also rely entirely on reserve estimates and related information prepared by Chevron, the other Working Interest Owners and the independent reserve engineer engaged by the Partnership. While the Trustees have no reason to believe the reserve estimates included in this Form 10-K are inaccurate, to the extent additional information exists that could affect the reserve estimates of Chevron, the other Working Interest Owners and the independent reserve engineer, the estimated reserves in this Form 10-K could also be too low. Operating risks for the Working Interest Owners' interests in the Royalty Properties can adversely affect Trust distributions. There are operational risks and hazards associated with the production and transportation of natural gas, including without limitation natural disasters, blowouts, explosions, fires, leakage of natural gas, releases of other hazardous materials, mechanical failures, cratering and pollution. Any of these or similar occurrences could result in the interruption or cessation of operations, personal injury or loss of life, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment, damage to the environment of natural resources, or cleanup obligations. The occurrence of drilling, production or transportation accidents and natural disasters at any of the Royalty Properties will reduce Trust distributions by the amount of uninsured costs. These accidents may result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. Offshore activities are also subject to a variety of additional operating risks, such as hurricanes and other weather disturbances. Any uninsured costs would be deducted as a production cost in calculating net proceeds payable to the Trust. As described in this report, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage during 2005. All but one of the platforms and facilities on the Royalty Properties were restored during 2006 and 2007. As also described in the report, production from the two most significant oil and gas properties associated with the Trust ceased following damage inflicted by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. The platforms and wells on Eugene Island 339 were completely destroyed. While Hurricane Ike caused limited damage to the facilities at Ship Shoal 182 and 183, all of the wells at Ship Shoal 182 and 183 were shut-in following hurricane related damage to a third-party transporter's natural gas pipeline. Terrorism and continued hostilities in the Middle East could decrease Trust distributions or the market price of the units of beneficial interest of the Trust. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism and other sustained military campaigns could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the Units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators developing the underlying properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. The operators of the working interests are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Offshore oil and gas operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. These regulations and changes in regulations could have a material adverse effect on Royalty income payable to the Trust. 30 Table of Contents Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could adversely affect Trust distributions Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse gas emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. Legislative and regulatory measures to address concerns that emissions of greenhouse gases are contributing to climate change are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels. In 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which establishes a binding set of emission targets for greenhouse gases, became binding on the countries that had ratified it. In the United States, federal legislation imposing restrictions on greenhouse gases is under consideration. Proposed legislation has been introduced that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of greenhouse gases and would require more sources of greenhouse gas emissions to obtain greenhouse gas emission "allowances" corresponding to their annual emissions. In addition, the EPA is taking steps that would result in the regulation of greenhouse gases as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. To date, the EPA has issued (i) a "Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases" final rule, effective December 29, 2009, which establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources in the United States emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gases to inventory and report their greenhouse gas emissions annually and (ii) an "Endangerment Finding" final rule, effective January 14, 2010, which states the current and projected concentrations of six key greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, as well as emissions from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines, threaten public health and welfare, allowing the EPA to finalize motor vehicle greenhouse gas standards (the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil). Finally, according to the EPA, the final motor vehicle greenhouse gas standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. As a result, the EPA has proposed to tailor these programs such that only large stationary sources will be required to have air permits that authorize greenhouse gas emissions. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on the Royalty Property operations if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on the Royalty Property operations. In addition to potential impacts on the Royalty Property operations directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, the Royalty Property operations also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. The Trustees and the Unit holders have no control over the operation or development of the Royalty Properties and have little influence over operation or development. Neither the Trustees nor the Unit holders can influence or control the operation or future development of the underlying properties. The Royalty Properties are owned by independent Working Interest Owners. The Working Interest Owners manage the underlying properties and handle receipt and payment of funds relating to the Royalty Properties and payments to the Trust for the Royalty. Information regarding operations provided by the Working Interest Owners has been subject to errors and adjustments, some of which have been significant. Accordingly, the Trustees cannot assure 31 Table of Contents Unit holders that other errors or adjustments by Working Interest Owners, whether historical or future, will not affect future Royalty income and distributions by the Trust. The current Working Interest Owners are under no obligation to continue operating the properties. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. Neither the Trustees nor the Unit holders have the right to replace an operator. The Trustees rely upon the Working Interest Owners and Managing General Partner for information regarding the Royalty Properties. The Trustees rely on the Working Interest Owners and the Managing General Partner of the Partnership for information regarding the Royalty Properties. The Working Interest Owners alone control (i) historical operating data, including production volumes, marketing of products, operating and capital expenditures, environmental and other liabilities, effects of regulatory changes and the number of producing wells and acreage, (ii) plans for future operating and capital expenditures, (iii) geological data relating to reserves, as well as related projections regarding production, operating expenses and capital expenses used in connection with the preparation of the reserve study, (iv) forward-looking information relating to production and drilling plans and (v) information regarding the Royalty Properties responsive to litigation claims. While the Trustees request material information for use in periodic reports as part of its disclosure controls and procedures, the Trustees do not control this information and rely entirely on the Working Interest Owners to provide accurate and timely information when requested for use in the Trust's periodic reports. The Trustees also rely on the Managing General Partner of the Partnership to collect certain information from the Working Interest Owners and do not have any direct contact with the Working Interest Owners other than the Managing General Partner. Under the terms of the Trust Indenture, the Trustees are entitled to rely, and in fact rely, on certain experts in good faith. While the Trustees have no reason to believe their reliance on experts is unreasonable, this reliance on experts and limited access to information may be viewed as a weakness as compared to the management and oversight of entity forms other than trusts. The owner of any Royalty Property may abandon any property, terminating the related Royalty. The Working Interest Owners may at any time transfer all or part of the Royalty Properties to another unrelated third-party. Unit holders are not entitled to vote on any transfer, and the Trust will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the Royalty Properties will continue to be subject to the Royalty, but the Net Proceeds from the transferred property would be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee would be responsible for all of the obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to the Trust the Royalty on the transferred portion of the Royalty Properties, and the current owner of the Royalty Properties would have no continuing obligation to the Trust for those properties. The current Working Interest Owners or any transferee may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the Royalty relating to the abandoned well. Generally, if production ceases from an outer continental shelf lease, like that for Eugene Island 339, production must be restored or drilling operations must commence within 180 days of the cessation (which was in early March 2009 with respect to Eugene Island 339 given the cessation of production in September 2008 resulting from Hurricane Ike), or the lease will be terminated. A lease operator may seek approval from the regional supervisor of the MMS to allow additional time to restore production. Chevron has submitted such a request with respect to Eugene Island 339. Chevron has informed the Corporate Trustee that Chevron presently intends to pursue the redevelopment of 32 Table of Contents platforms and wells at Eugene Island 339 in accordance with the terms and conditions established by the MMS in response to Chevron's submission to the MMS of a program to restore production at Eugene Island 339. The activity schedule approved by the MMS contemplates, among other things, commencement of front-end engineering and design work by the end of January 2010, which was so commenced, completion of the front-end engineering and design work by the end of July 2010, an awarding of fabrication contracts for platform, substructure and equipment by the end of November 2010, and commencement of production ultimately occurring by the end of October 2012. Chevron is required to provide the MMS with periodic updates on Chevron's progress on such redevelopment. The approval by the MMS expires by its terms on November 30, 2010, and Chevron would need to request an extension of such approval from the MMS in order to complete the proposed redevelopment, given that the activity schedule contemplates activity through October 2012. The costs for such a redevelopment would be significant. While Chevron has stated that it intends to pursue such a redevelopment, there is no obligation for Chevron to continue to pursue such redevelopment. Failure or inability to pursue such a redevelopment, and on the timeframes approved by the MMS, could result in a loss of the lease. At this time, there can be no assurance that production will be restored at Eugene Island 339. For a more complete description of Chevron's current plans for the restoration of production at Eugene Island 339, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Operations" under Item 7 of this Form 10-K. The Royalty can be sold and the Trust can be terminated. The Trust will be terminated and the Trustees must sell the Royalty if holders of a majority of the Units approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust, or if the total future net revenues attributable to the Royalty, determined by the independent reserve engineer as of December 31 of the prior year, are less than $2 million. Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the Unit holders and Unit holders will receive no further distributions from the Trust. We cannot assure you that any such sale will be on terms acceptable to all Unit holders. For a more complete description of these matters, see "—Termination of the Trust" under Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Trust assets are depleting assets and, if the Working Interest Owners or other operators of the Royalty Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. The Net Proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Royalty Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of natural gas. If operators of the Royalty Properties do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. For federal income tax purposes, depletion is reflected as a deduction, which is dependent upon the purchase price of a Units. Please see the section entitled "—Description of the Units—Federal Income Tax Matters" under Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Because the Net Proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to the Unit holders, which could reduce the market value of the Units over time. Eventually, properties underlying the Trust's Royalty will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of Net Proceeds therefrom. 33 Table of Contents Unit holders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a Unit holder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unit holders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustees. Additionally, Unit holders have no voting rights in the Working Interest Owners. Unlike corporations which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a Corporate Trustee and three Individual Trustees in accordance with the Trust Agreement and other organizational documents. The Trustees have extremely limited discretion in their administration of the Trust. Unit holders have limited ability to enforce the Trust's rights against the current or future owners of the Royalty Properties. The Trust Agreement and related trust law permit the Trustees and the Trust to sue the Working Interest Owners to compel them to fulfill the terms of the Conveyance of the Royalty. If the Trustees do not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the Conveyance, the recourse of a Unit holder would likely be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustees to compel the Trustees to take specified actions. Unit holders probably would not be able to sue the Working Interest Owners directly. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There were no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission comments as of December 31, 2009. 