Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face, but are those that we have identified as being the most significant factors that make investment in our stock speculative or risky or that have special application to us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about, or that we deem less significant than those identified below, may also make investment in our stock speculative or risky. If any of the adverse events associated with the risks described below occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such a case, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our Loss Reserves are Based on an Estimate of Our Future Liability, and If Actual Claims Prove to be Greater Than Our Reserves, Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition May Be Adversely Affected We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses where material, including legal and other fees, and costs not associated with specific claims but related to the claims payment functions for reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, we cannot be sure that current reserves will prove adequate. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, we would have to augment our reserves and incur a charge to our earnings, and these charges could be material. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on our assessment of known facts and circumstan ces. Many factors could affect these reserves, including economic and social conditions, frequency and severity of claims, medical trend resulting from the influences of underlying cost inflation, changes in utilization and demand for medical services, and changes in doctrines of legal liability and damage awards in litigation. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable in advance. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting lag between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is reported to us. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, particularly those in which the various considerations affecting the type of claim are subject to change and in which long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are continually refined in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled, and are reflected in the results of the period s in which such estimates are changed. 10 Our Results May Fluctuate as a Result of Factors Generally Affecting the Insurance and Reinsurance Industry The results of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Factors that affect the industry in general could also cause our results to fluctuate. The industry and our financial condition and results of operations may be affected significantly by: · Fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital; · Rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; · Losses related to epidemics, terrorist activities, random acts of violence or declared or undeclared war; · Changes in reserves resulting from different types of claims that may arise and the development of judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liability; · The overall level of economic activity and the competitive environment in the industry; · Greater than expected use of health care services by members; · New mandated benefits or other regulatory changes that change the scope of business or increase our costs; and · Failure of MGUs to adhere to underwriting guidelines as required by us in its MGU agreements. The occurrence of any or a combination of these factors, which is beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results. If Rating Agencies Downgrade Our Insurance Companies, Our Results of Operations and Competitive Position in the Industry May Suffer Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Independence American is rated A- (Excellent) by A.M. Best Company, Inc., whose ratings reflect its opinions of an insurance company's financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders, and are not evaluations directed to investors. The rating of Independence American is subject to periodic review by A.M. Best Company, Inc. If A.M. Best Company, Inc. were to reduce Independence American's ratings from current levels, our business would be adversely affected. Stock Transfer Restrictions Although the stock transfer restrictions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation are intended to reduce the likelihood of an ownership change, it will not prevent all transfers that might result in an "ownership change." Furthermore, certain changes in relationships and other events not addressed by the stock transfer restrictions could cause us to undergo an "ownership change." Section 382 of the Code is an extremely complex provision with respect to which there are many uncertainties. In addition, we have not requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the effectiveness of the stock transfer restrictions and, therefore, we cannot be certain that the IRS will agree that the stock transfer restrictions are effective for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. Further, we cannot assure that the stock transfer restrictions or portions thereof will be enforceable in D elaware courts or that the IRS would agree that all of our tax net operating loss carryforwards are allowable. In addition, our board of directors may determine, in its sole discretion, to permit a restricted transfer that results in an "ownership change" if it determines that such transfer is in our best interests. Therefore, the stock transfer restrictions were to reduce, but not necessarily eliminate, the risk that Section 382 of the Code will cause limitations on the use of our tax attributes. Our Inability to Assess Underwriting Risk Accurately Could Reduce Our Net Income Our success is dependent on our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses on which we retain risk. If we fail to assess accurately the risks we retain, we may fail to establish the appropriate 11 premium rates and our reserves may be inadequate to cover our losses, requiring augmentation of the reserves, which in turn would reduce our net income. Our agreements with our producers (including our MGUs) require that each producer follow underwriting guidelines published by us and amended from time to time. Failure to follow these guidelines may result in termination or modification of the agreement. We perform periodic audits to confirm adherence to the guidelines, but it is possible that we would not detect a breach in the guidelines for some time after the infraction, which could result in a material impact on the Net Loss Ratio (defined as insurance benefits, claims and reserves divided by (premiums earned less underwriting expenses)) for that producer and could have an adverse impact on our operating results. We May Be Unsuccessful in Competing Against Larger or Better-Established Business Rivals Our industry is highly competitive and has experienced severe price competition from time to time over the last several years. We face competition from domestic and international insurance and reinsurance companies, from underwriting agencies, and from diversified financial services companies that are much larger than we are. Some of these competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources, have been operating longer than we have and have established long-term and continuing business relationships through the industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage. In addition to competition in the operation of its business, we face competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified employees. We cannot assure that we will maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we operate, or that we will be able to expand our operat ions into new markets and compete effectively in the future. If we fail to do so, our business could be materially adversely affected. If We Fail to Comply With Extensive State and Federal Regulations, We Will Be Subject to Penalties, Which May Include Fines and Suspension and Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things: · Approval of policy forms and premium rates; · Standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements, which are a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized; · Licensing of insurers and their agents and regulation of their conduct in the market; · Restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; · Restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates; · Restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; · Requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; · Requiring certain methods of accounting; · Prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and · Requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. A large portion of our business depends on our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew, or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations, or interpretations that we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which may be different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite 12 licenses and approvals and do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our insurance-related activities or otherwise penalize us. That type of action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry (whether federal, state or foreign), or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Decreases in the Fair Market Value of Fixed Maturities May Greatly Reduce the Value of Our Investment Portfolio, and as a Result, Our Financial Condition May Suffer At December 31, 2007, fixed maturities represented $46.1 million or 75% of our total investments of $61.1 million. The fair market value of fixed maturities and the related investment income fluctuates depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us will generally increase or decrease in line with changes in market interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipa ted because of declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest rates. The impact of market value fluctuations affects our Consolidated Financial Statements. Because all of our fixed maturities are classified as available for sale, changes in the fair market value of our securities are reflected in our stockholders' equity (accumulated other comprehensive income or loss). No similar adjustment is made for liabilities to reflect a change in interest rates. Therefore, interest rate fluctuations and economic conditions could adversely affect our stockholders' equity, total comprehensive income and/or cash flows. The Occurrence of Various Events May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Utilize Fully Our Tax Net Operating Loss Carryforwards. We have U.S. federal tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $275 million, which may be used against any profits from our business. However, events outside of our or IHC’s control, such as certain acquisitions and dispositions of our common stock, may limit the use of all or a portion of our tax net operating loss carryforwards. If such events were to occur, our expectation of using our tax net operating loss carryforwards against potential profits would not be realized and we could potentially have a higher tax liability in the future than we would otherwise have had. Certain Proposed Federal and State Legislation May, if Adopted, Adversely Affect Our Business In the continuing debate over health care reform, certain federal and state legislation has been proposed that could have the effect of fundamentally altering the dynamics of the industry in which we compete, including imposing mandatory universal health care coverage, or otherwise resulting in a much larger role for government in the provision of health care. We cannot predict which, if any, of such broad-based proposals will be enacted into law and what the effect would be (either positive or negative) on our business and results of operations. Additionally, less-fundamental change in the regulatory requirements imposed on us may harm our business or results of operations. For example, some states have imposed time limits for the payment of uncontested covered claims and required health care and dental service plans to pay interest on uncontested claims not paid promptly within the required time period. Some states have also granted their insurance regulatory agencies additional authority to impose monetary penalties and other sanctions on health and dental plans engaging in certain unfair payment practices. If we were unable, for any reason, to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to us and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 13 We Rely on Reinsurance Arrangements to Help Manage Our Business Risks, and Failure to Perform by the Counterparties to Our Reinsurance Arrangements May Expose Us to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate We utilize reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Our reinsurers may be unable or unwilling to pay the reinsurance recoverable owed to us now or in the future or on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Failure to Maintain Effective and Efficient Information Systems Could Adversely Affect Our Business Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have different information systems for our various businesses. We have committed and will continue to commit significant resources to develop, maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to Protect Our Policyholder’s Confidential Information and Privacy Could Adversely Affect Our Business In the conduct of our business, we are subject to privacy regulations and to confidentiality obligations. For example, the collection and use of patient data in our health insurance operations is the subject of national and state legislation, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and certain other activities we conduct are subject to the privacy regulations of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. We also have contractual obligations to protect certain confidential information we obtain from our existing vendors, partners and policyholders. These obligations generally include protecting such confidential information in the same manner and to the same extent as we protect our own confidential information. If we do not properly comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory sanctions, such as penalties, fines and loss of license, as well as loss of reputation and possible litigation. Certain Business Arrangements are Terminable by Other Parties Commencing in July 2004, Independence American began reinsuring 20% of Standard Security Life’s short-term statutory disability benefit product. Standard Security Life is not contractually obligated to continue to cede this business to Independence American after termination of the current treaty year. In 2005, Standard Security Life and Madison National Life began ceding 10% of the majority of IHC’s fully insured health business to Independence American. Standard Security Life and Madison National Life are not contractually obligated to continue to cede this business to Independence American after termination of the current treaty years. Standard Security Life and Madison National Life ceded 22.7%, on average, of their medical stop-loss business to Independence American in 2007, amounts in excess of 15% are not contractually obligated. However, our MGUs are the largest producers of medical stop-l oss business for IHC, controlling a majority of this premium in 2007. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 