Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Company faces but only those identified by the Company, in accordance with the requirements of Item 503(c) of Regulation S-K, as being the most significant factors that make investment in the Company speculative or risky and that have special application to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems less significant than identified herein may also make investment in the Company speculative or risky. If any of the adverse events associated with the risks described below occurs, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company's common stock could decline. The Company's Loss Reserves are Based on an Estimate of Its Future Liability, and if Actual Claims Prove to be Greater Than The Company's Reserves, Its Results of Operations and Financial Condition May Be Adversely Affected The Company maintains loss reserves to cover its estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, including legal and other fees, and costs not associated with specific claims but related to the claims payment functions for reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, the Company cannot be sure that current reserves will prove adequate. If the Company's reserves are insufficient to cover its actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, the Company would have to augment its reserves and incur a charge to its earnings, and these charges could be material. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what the Company expects the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on the Company 's assessment of facts and circumstances then known. Many factors could affect these reserves, including economic and social conditions, frequency and severity of claims, medical trend resulting from the influences of underlying cost inflation, changes in utilization and demand for medical services, and changes in doctrines of legal liability and damage awards in litigation. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable in advance. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting lag between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is reported to the Company. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, particularly those in which the various considerations affecting the type of claim are subject to change and in which long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are continually refined in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported an d settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. The Company's Results May Fluctuate as a Result of Factors Generally Affecting the Insurance and Reinsurance Industry The results of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Factors that affect the industry in general could also cause the Company's results to fluctuate. The industry’s and the Company's financial condition and results of operations may be affected significantly by: · Fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital; · Rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; · Losses related to epidemics, terrorist activities, random acts of violence or declared or undeclared war; · Changes in reserves resulting from different types of claims that may arise and the development of judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liability; · The overall level of economic activity and the competitive environment in the industry; · Greater than expected use of healthcare services by members; 11 · New mandated benefits or other regulatory changes that change the scope of business or increase the Company’s costs; and · Failure of MGUs to adhere to underwriting guidelines as required by the Company in its MGU agreements. The occurrence of any or a combination of these factors, which is beyond the Company’s control, could have a material adverse effect on its results. If the Rating Agencies Downgrade Independence American, the Company's Results of Operations and Competitive Position in the Industry May Suffer Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Independence American is rated B++ (Good) by A.M. Best Company, Inc., whose ratings reflect its opinions of an insurance company's financial strength, operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders, and are not evaluations directed to investors. The rating of Independence American is subject to periodic review by A.M. Best Company, Inc., and the Company is not assured of the continued retention of this rating. If A.M. Best Company, Inc. reduces Independence American's ratings from its current levels, the Company's business would be adversely affected. Stock Transfer Restrictions Although the stock transfer restrictions contained in the Certificate of Incorporation are intended to reduce the likelihood of an ownership change, it will not prevent all transfers that might result in an "ownership change." Furthermore, certain changes in relationships and other events not addressed by the stock transfer restrictions could cause AMIC to undergo an "ownership change." Section 382 of the Code is an extremely complex provision with respect to which there are many uncertainties. In addition, AMIC has not requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the effectiveness of the stock transfer restrictions and, therefore, AMIC cannot be certain that the IRS will agree that the stock transfer restrictions are effective for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. Further, AMIC cannot assure that the stock transfer restrictions or portions thereof will be enforceab le in Delaware courts or that the IRS would agree that all of AMIC's tax net operating loss carryforwards are allowable. In addition, AMIC's board of directors may determine, in its sole discretion, to permit a restricted transfer that results in an "ownership change" if it determines that such transfer is in the best interests of AMIC. Therefore, the stock transfer restrictions were to reduce, but not necessary eliminate, the risk that Section 382 of the Code will cause limitations on the use of tax attributes of AMIC. The Company's Inability to Assess Underwriting Risk Accurately Could Reduce Its Net Income The Company's success is dependent on its ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses on which the risk is retained. If the Company fails to assess accurately the risks it retains, the Company may fail to establish the appropriate premium rates and the Company's reserves may be inadequate to cover its losses, requiring augmentation of the reserves, which in turn would reduce the Company's net income. The Company’s agreements with its producers (including its MGUs) require that the producers follow underwriting guidelines published by the Company and amended from time to time. Failure to follow these guidelines may result in termination or modification of the agreement. The Company performs periodic audits to confirm adherence to the guidelines, but it is possible that the Company would not detect a breach in the guidelines for some time after the infraction which could result in a material impact on the Net Loss Ratio for that producer and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results. If the Company is Unsuccessful in Competing Against Larger or More Well-Established Competitors, Its Results of Operations and Financial Condition Will Be Adversely Affected The Company's industry is highly competitive and has experienced severe price competition from time to time over the last several years. The Company faces competition from domestic and international insurance and reinsurance companies, from underwriting agencies, and from diversified financial services companies that are significantly larger than the Company. Some of these competitors have greater financial, marketing and other 12 resources, have been operating longer than the Company and have established long-term and continuing business relationships through the industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage. In addition to competition in the operation of its business, the Company faces competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified employees. The Company cannot assure that it will maintain its current competitive position in the markets in which it operates, or that it will be able to expand its operations into new markets and compete effectively in the future. If the Company fails to do so, its business could be materially adversely affected. If the Company Fails to Comply with Extensive State and Federal Regulations, It Will Be Subject to Penalties, Which May Include Fines and Suspension and Which May Adversely Affect Its Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company is subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which it does business, relates to, among other things: · Approval of policy forms and premium rates; · Standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements, which are a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized; · Licensing of insurers and their agents; · Restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; · Restrictions on the ability of Independence American to pay dividends to the Company; · Restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates; · Restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; · Requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; · Requiring certain methods of accounting; · Prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and · Requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. The Company's business depends on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and its ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for its operations. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew, or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, the Company follows practices based on its interpretations of regulations, or those that it believes to be generally followed by the industry, which may be different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If the Company does not have the requisite licenses and approvals and does not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend it from carrying on some or all of its activities or otherwise penalize it. That type of action could have a material adverse effect on its business. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry (whether federal, state or foreign), or changes in laws or 13 regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Decreases in the Fair Market Value of Fixed Maturities May Greatly Reduce the Value of the Company's Investment Portfolio, and as a Result, the Company's Financial Condition May Suffer At December 31, 2006, fixed maturities represented $42.7 million or 75% of the Company's total investments of $57.2 million. The fair market value of fixed maturities and the related investment income fluctuates depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by the Company will generally increase or decrease in line with changes in market interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result from the repayment of principal might occur ea rlier than anticipated because of declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest rates. The impact of market value fluctuations affects the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. Because all of the Company's fixed maturities are classified as available for sale, changes in the fair market value of the Company's securities are reflected in the Company's stockholders' equity (accumulated other comprehensive income or loss). No similar adjustment is made for liabilities to reflect a change in interest rates. Therefore, interest rate fluctuations and economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's stockholders' equity, total comprehensive income and/or cash flows. IHC Will Exercise Significant Influence Over the Company's Business and Affairs, Which May Result in Potential Conflicts of Interest Between IHC and the Company; Reliance on IHC's Expertise The Company's operations are being directed by IHC management and employees, which may result in potential conflicts of interest between IHC and the Company. For example, a conflict may arise if IHC were to engage in activities or pursue corporation opportunities that overlap with the Company's business. Because IHC's management will also constitute the Company's management, these individuals will have fiduciary duties to both companies, which could result in conflicts of interest, including the Company foregoing opportunities or taking actions that disproportionately benefit IHC. IHC will also have at least two representatives on the Company's board of directors who will have similar conflicts of interest. In addition, the Company is relying upon the management and expertise of officers of IHC who also serve as officers of the Company. The Occurrence of Various Events May Adversely Affect the Company's Ability to Utilize Fully Its Tax Net Operating Loss Carryforwards. The Company has U.S. federal tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $276 million, which may be used against any profits from the Company's business. However, events outside of the control of the Company or IHC, such as certain acquisitions and dispositions of the Company's common stock, may limit the use of all or a portion of the Company's tax net operating loss carryforwards. If such events were to occur, the Company's expectation of using its tax net operating loss carryforwards against potential profits would not be realized and the Company could potentially have a higher tax liability in the future than it would otherwise have had. Certain Proposed Federal and State Legislation May, if Adopted, Adversely Affect the Company's Business In the continuing debate over health-care reform, certain federal and state legislation has been proposed that could have the effect of fundamentally altering the dynamics of the industry in which the Company competes, including imposing mandatory universal health-care coverage, or otherwise resulting in a much larger role for government in the provision of health care. We cannot predict which, if any, of such broad-based proposals will be enacted into law and what the effect would be (either positive or negative) on the Company’s business and results of operations. 14 Additionally, less-fundamental change in the regulatory requirements imposed on the Company may harm its business or results of operations. For example, some states have imposed new time limits for the payment of uncontested covered claims and required health-care and dental service plans to pay interest on uncontested claims not paid promptly within the required time period. Some states have also granted their insurance regulatory agencies additional authority to impose monetary penalties and other sanctions on health and dental plans engaging in certain unfair payment practices. If the Company were unable, for any reason, to comply with these requirements, it could result in substantial costs to the Company and could materially adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Certain Business Arrangements are Terminable by Other Parties Commencing in July 2004, Independence American began reinsuring 20% of Standard Security Life’s short-term statutory disability benefit product. Standard Security Life is not contractually obligated to continue to cede this business to Independence American after termination of the current treaty year. In 2005, Standard Security Life and Madison National Life began ceding 10% of the majority of IHC’s fully insured business to Independence American. Standard Security Life and Madison National Life are not contractually obligated to continue to cede this business to Independence American after termination of the current treaty years. Standard Security Life and Madison National Life ceded 22.2% on average to Independence American in 2006, amounts in excess of 15% are not contractually obligated. However, the AMIC MGUs are the largest producers of medical stop-loss business for IHC, controlling a majo rity of this premium in 2006. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 