ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the cautionary statement under the caption “FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION” in Item 7 of this report and the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones Terex faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to Terex or that the Company currently considers to be immaterial may also impair Terex’s business or adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, Terex’s business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. The Company’s business is affected by the cyclical nature of the markets Terex serves. The demand for the Company’s products depends upon the general economic conditions of the markets in which the Company competes. The Company’s sales depend in part upon its customers’ replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions, including a decrease in commodity prices, may cause customers to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing machinery. Downward economic cycles may result in reductions in sales of the Company’s products, which may reduce Terex’s profits. The Company has taken a number of steps to reduce its fixed costs and diversify its operations to decrease the negative impact of these cycles. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will prevent the negative impact of poor economic conditions. The Company’s business is sensitive to increases in interest rates. The Company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing issuances of variable rate debt. Primary exposure includes movements in the U.S. prime rate and LIBOR. The U. S. Federal Reserve Board has raised interest rates at 15 consecutive meetings and, while hinting the tightening cycle is about over, has not clearly specified at what rate it plans to stop. The Company uses interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate risk. In addition, while overall economic growth has slowed, business investment and manufacturing continue to perform strongly. If interest rates continue to rise, it becomes more costly for the Company’s customers to borrow money to pay for the equipment it buys from the Company. Should the U. S. Federal Reserve Board decide to continue with several more rate increases, prospects for business investment and manufacturing could deteriorate sufficiently to impact sales opportunities. The Company also has a diversified revenue base with approximately 60% of its revenue in non-North American markets. This revenue is also susceptible to interest rate increases in Europe and Asia. The Company’s business is sensitive to government spending. Many of the Company’s customers depend substantially on funding of highway construction and maintenance and other infrastructure projects by U.S. federal and state governments and governments in other nations. In addition, the Company sells military products to the U.S. and other nations. Any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance, other infrastructure projects and military programs could cause Terex’s revenues and profits to decrease. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry. The Company competes in a highly competitive industry. To compete successfully, Terex’s products must excel in terms of quality, price, product line, ease of use, safety and comfort, and Terex must also provide excellent customer service. The greater financial resources of certain of the Company’s competitors may put it at a competitive disadvantage. If competition in the Company’s industry intensifies or if Terex’s current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, the Company may lose sales or be required to lower the prices it charges for its products. This may reduce revenue from the Company’s products and services, lower its gross margins or cause Terex to lose market share. -25- Back to Index The Company relies on key management. The Company relies on the management and leadership skills of Ronald M. DeFeo, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. DeFeo has been with Terex since 1993, has been Chief Executive Officer of Terex since 1995 and has overseen the transformation of the Company during that time. Mr. DeFeo has an employment agreement with the Company which expires on December 31, 2012. The loss of his services could have a significant, negative impact on Terex’s business. In addition, the Company relies on the management and leadership skills of other senior executives. These executives are not bound by employment agreements. The Company could be harmed by the loss of key personnel in the future. Some of the Company’s customers rely on financing with third parties to purchase Terex’s products. The Company relies on sales of its products to generate cash from operations. A significant portion of Terex’s sales are financed by third party finance companies on behalf of the Company’s customers. The availability of financing by third parties is affected by general economic conditions, the credit worthiness of the customers and the estimated residual value of the Company’s equipment. Deterioration in the credit quality of Terex’s customers or the estimated residual value of the Company’s equipment could negatively impact the ability of such customers to obtain the resources needed to make purchases of Terex’s equipment. The Company provides financing for some of its customers. The Company, directly and through joint ventures, provides financing for some of its customers, primarily in Europe and the United States, to purchase its equipment. For the most part, this financing represents sales type leases and operating leases. It has been the Company’s policy to provide such financing to its customers in situations where it anticipates that it will be able to sell the financing obligations to a third party financial institution within a short period of time. However, until such financing obligations are sold to a third party or if the Company is unable to sell such obligations to a third party, the Company retains the risks resulting from such customer financing. The results of the Company could be adversely affected in the event that such customers default on their contractual obligations to the Company. The results of the Company also could be adversely affected if the residual values of such leased equipment declines below its original estimated values and the Company is forced to subsequently sell such equipment at a loss. The Company insures and sells a significant portion of its accounts receivable to third party finance companies. These third party finance companies are not obligated to purchase accounts receivable from the Company, and may choose to limit or discontinue further purchases from the Company at any time. Changes in customers’ credit worthiness, in the market for credit insurance or in the willingness of third party finance companies to purchase accounts receivable from the Company could impact the Company’s cash flow from operations. The Company is dependent upon third-party suppliers, making it vulnerable to supply shortages. The Company obtains materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Any delay in the Company’s suppliers’ abilities to provide Terex with necessary materials and components may affect the Company’s capabilities at a number of its manufacturing locations, or may require the Company to seek alternative supply sources. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting the Company’s suppliers including capacity constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Specifically, the Company has recently had difficulty in obtaining some of its necessary components, particularly tires. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to its customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Recently, market prices of some of the Company’s key raw materials have increased significantly. In particular, the Company has experienced significant increases in steel prices in recent periods, which have increased the Company’s expenses. A portion of the increased steel costs has been passed to the Company’s customers by way of surcharges and price increases. Continued significant steel cost increases, in addition to potential limitation of the steel supply by mills, could negatively impact the Company’s gross margins and financial results. In addition, the Company purchases material and services from its suppliers on terms extended based on the Company’s overall credit rating. Negative changes in the Company’s credit rating may impact suppliers’ willingness to extend terms and increase the cash requirements of the business. -26- Back to Index The Company has debt outstanding and must comply with restrictive covenants in its debt agreements. The Company’s existing debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants, which limit Terex’s ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, dispose of assets and acquire new businesses. These covenants also require the Company to meet certain financial tests. Specifically, some of these financial tests include a pro forma consolidated leverage ratio test, a consolidated interest ratio test, a consolidated fixed charge ratio test, a pro forma consolidated senior secured debt leverage ratio test and a capital expenditures test, as such tests are defined in Terex’s existing debt agreements. While the Company is currently in compliance with all of the foregoing tests, increases in Terex’s debt or decreases in Terex’s earnings could cause the Company to be in default of these financial covenants. If the Company is unable to comply with these covenants, there would be a default under these debt agreements. In addition, changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could cause the Company to default under its debt agreements. A default, if not waived by Terex’s lenders, could result in acceleration of the Company’s debt and possibly bankruptcy. The Company is subject to currency fluctuations. The Company’s products are sold in over 100 countries around the world. Terex’s revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, including the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Australian Dollar and Czech Koruna, while costs incurred to generate those revenues are only partly incurred in the same currencies. Since the Company’s financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on Terex’s earnings. To reduce this currency exchange risk, the Company may buy protecting or offsetting positions (known as “hedges”) in certain currencies to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement. The Company has not engaged in any speculative or profit motivated hedging activities. Although the Company partially hedges its revenues and costs, currency fluctuations may impact Terex’s financial performance in the future. The Company is exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. The Company’s international operations are subject to a number of potential risks. Such risks principally include: • trade protection measures and currency exchange controls; • labor unrest; • regional economic uncertainty; • political instability; • terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • export duties and quotas; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • current and changing regulatory environments; • difficulty in obtaining distribution support; and • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings. In addition, many of the nations in which the Company operates have developing legal and economic systems, adding a level of uncertainty to its operations in those countries relative to those that would be expected domestically. These factors may have an adverse effect on Terex’s international operations in the future. The Company may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. As of December 31, 2005, the Company employed approximately 17,600 persons worldwide. Approximately 37% of the Company’s employees are represented by labor unions, or similar employee organizations outside the United States, which have entered into various separate collective bargaining agreements with the Company. While the Company has no reason to believe that it will be impacted by work stoppages or other labor matters, the Company cannot assure that future issues with its labor unions will be resolved favorably or that it will not encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or its employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on the Company or may limit its flexibility in dealing with its workforce. -27- Back to IndexCompliance with environmental regulations could be costly and require the Company to make significant expenditures. The Company generates hazardous and nonhazardous wastes in the normal course of its manufacturing operations. As a result, Terex is subject to a wide range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern actions that may have adverse environmental effects and also require compliance with certain practices when handling and disposing of hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. These laws and regulations also impose liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances, should any of such events occur. No such incidents have occurred which required the Company to pay material amounts to comply with such laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations has, and will continue to require, the Company to make expenditures. The Company does not expect that these expenditures will have a material adverse effect on its business or profitability. The Company faces product liability claims and other liabilities due to the nature of its business. In the Company’s lines of business numerous suits have been filed alleging damages for accidents that have occurred during the use or operation of the Company’s products. The Company is self-insured, up to certain limits, for these product liability exposures, as well as for certain exposures related to general, workers’ compensation and automobile liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic losses as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. Terex does not believe that the final outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, however any liabilities not covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company is currently the subject of an SEC investigation. Terex has received a Formal Order of Private Investigation from the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) advising the Company that the SEC has commenced an investigation of Terex’s accounting. Terex also received a subpoena from the SEC in the investigation entitled “In the Matter of United Rentals, Inc.” This subpoena requested information to assist the SEC in its investigation of four transactions during 2000 and 2001 involving United Rentals, on the one hand, and Terex or a Terex subsidiary (prior to its acquisition by Terex), on the other. Terex has been cooperating with the SEC, and will continue to cooperate fully to furnish the SEC staff with information needed to complete their investigation. Until the SEC’s investigation of the Company is complete, the Company is not able to predict the outcome of the SEC’s investigation. As of December 31, 2005, the Company did not maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures and adequate internal control over financial reporting. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As of December 31, 2004, the Company did not maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, as there were a number of material weaknesses that existed as of December 31, 2004. Certain material weaknesses were remediated in 2005. However, two material weaknesses that existed as of December 31, 2004 still existed as of December 31, 2005. If the Company does not remediate its material weaknesses that existed as of December 31, 2005, these material weaknesses could result in a misstatement of the Company’s accounts in a future period that would result in a material misstatement to the Company’s annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. In addition, if the Company does not improve its disclosure controls and procedures, the Company may be delayed in filing future periodic reports with the SEC. The Company is in the process of implementing a global enterprise system. The Company has begun the implementation of a new global enterprise system. This system will replace many of the Company’s existing operating and financial systems. Such an implementation is a major undertaking both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Should the system not be implemented successfully and within budget or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect the operations and results of operations of the Company, including the ability of the Company to report accurate and timely financial results. The Company currently faces limitations on its ability to access the capital markets using short form SEC documents. The Company’s ability to access the capital markets is also subject to its timely filing of its periodic reports with the SEC, and the Company’s recent failure to file certain of its periodic reports on a timely basis will limit the ability of the Company to access the capital markets using short-form registration for a period of twelve months from the date the Company becomes current with all of its SEC filings. -28- Back to Index The Company may face limitations on its ability to integrate acquired businesses. The Company has completed a number of acquisitions since 2000. The successful integration of new businesses depends on the Company’s ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. While the Company believes it has successfully integrated these acquisitions to date, Terex cannot ensure that these acquired companies will operate profitably or that the intended beneficial effect from these acquisitions will be realized. Further, in connection with acquisitions, the Company may need to consolidate or restructure its acquired or existing facilities, which may require expenditures for severance obligations related to reductions in workforce and other charges resulting from the consolidations or restructurings, such as write-down of inventory and lease termination costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. -29- Back to Index 