ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the cautionary statement under the caption “Forward-Looking Information” above and the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. Our business is affected by the cyclical nature of the markets we serve. Demand for our products depends upon general economic conditions in the markets in which we compete. Our sales depend in part upon our customers’ replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions, including a decrease in commodity prices, the recent deterioration in the worldwide financial markets and decreasing global economic activity, have caused and may continue to cause customers to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing machinery. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products will adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. We are in a period in which global economic conditions and key commodity prices have continued to decline significantly, and if economic conditions in the U.S. and other key markets deteriorate further or do not show improvement, we may experience negative impacts to our financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows. Given the uncertainty around the depth and duration of the current recession, we may experience continued reductions in sales of our products and/or the carrying value of our assets, which may reduce our profits. We have taken a number of steps and will continually review our operations to reduce our costs, including but not limited to downsizing our employee base, exiting certain facilities and diversifying our business to decrease the negative impact of these cycles. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will mitigate the negative impact of the recent deterioration in economic conditions. Our access to borrowing capacity has been and could continue to be affected by the uncertainty impacting credit markets generally. Our ability to access the capital markets to raise funds through the sale of equity or debt securities is subject to various factors, including general economic and/or financial market conditions. As a result of current economic conditions, including turmoil and uncertainty in the capital markets, credit markets have tightened significantly, which makes obtaining new capital more challenging and more expensive. The current conditions of the financial markets have adversely affected the availability of credit and liquidity resources and our access to capital markets is limited and subject to increased costs until stability re-emerges. In addition, several large financial institutions have either recently failed or been dependent on the assistance of the U.S. federal government to continue to operate as a going concern. Although we believe that the banks participating in our credit facility have adequate capital and resources, we can provide no assurance that all of these banks will continue to operate as a going concern in the future. If any of the banks in our lending group were to fail, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our credit facility would be reduced. In the event that the availability under our credit facility was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to finance our capital needs. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to (i) obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of our credit facility, or (ii) accessing the public capital markets. If it becomes necessary to access additional capital, it is likely that any such alternatives in the current market would be on terms less favorable than under our existing credit facility terms, which could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our business is sensitive to government spending. Many of our customers depend substantially on government funding of highway construction, maintenance and other infrastructure projects. In addition, we sell products to governments and government agencies in the U.S. and other nations. Any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance, other infrastructure projects and overall government spending could cause our revenues and profits to decrease. Many governments around the world, including the U.S., are proposing various stimulus packages that are intended to increase business activity and in particular infrastructure spending. There is no guarantee that any such programs will be enacted, and if enacted, that they will have a material positive impact on our revenues and profits. -23- We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our industry is highly competitive. To compete successfully, our products must excel in terms of quality, price, features, ease of use, safety and comfort, and we must also provide excellent customer service. The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage. If competition in our industry intensifies or if our current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, we may lose sales or be required to lower the prices we charge for our products. This may reduce revenue from our products and services, lower our gross margins or cause us to lose market share. A material disruption to one of our significant manufacturing plants could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We produce most of our machines and aftermarket parts for each product type at one manufacturing facility. If operations at a significant facility were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, work stoppages, power outages or other reasons, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. Interruptions in production could increase costs and delay delivery of units in production. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until production capacity is available. We rely on key management. We rely on the management and leadership skills of Ronald M. DeFeo, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. DeFeo has been with us since 1992, serving as Chief Executive Officer since 1995 and Chairman since 1998, guiding the transformation of Terex during that time. We have an employment agreement with Mr. DeFeo, which expires on December 31, 2012. The loss of his services could have a significant, negative impact on our business. In addition, we rely on the management and leadership skills of our other senior executives who are not bound by employment agreements. We could be harmed by the loss of any of these senior executives or other key personnel in the future. Some of our customers rely on financing with third parties to purchase our products. We rely on sales of our products to generate cash from operations. A significant portion of our sales are financed by third party finance companies on behalf of our customers. The availability of financing by third parties is affected by general economic conditions, the credit worthiness of our customers and the estimated residual value of our equipment. Deterioration in the credit quality of our customers or the estimated residual value of our equipment could negatively impact the ability of our customers to obtain the resources they need to make purchases of our equipment. Given the current economic conditions and the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets, there can be no assurance third party finance companies will continue to extend credit to our customers. Due to the significant global economic decline and the resulting widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, some of our customers have been unable to obtain the credit they need to buy our equipment. As a result, we have begun to experience an increase in customer order cancellations. Given the lack of liquidity, our customers may be compelled to sell their equipment at less than fair value to raise cash, which could have a negative impact on residual values of our equipment. These economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. We provide financing for some of our customers. We provide financing for some of our customers, primarily in the U.S., to purchase our equipment. For the most part, this financing represents sales type leases and operating leases. It has been our policy to provide such financing to our customers in situations where we anticipate that we will be able to sell the financing obligations to a third party financial institution within a short period. However, until such financing obligations are sold to a third party or if we are unable to sell such obligations to a third party, we retain the risks resulting from such customer financing. Our results could be adversely affected if such customers default on their contractual obligations to us. Our results also could be adversely affected if the residual values of such leased equipment decline below their original estimated values and we subsequently sell such equipment at a loss. We insure and sell a portion of our accounts receivable to third party finance companies. These third party finance companies are not obligated to purchase accounts receivable from us, and may choose to limit or discontinue further purchases from us at any time. Changes in our customers’ credit worthiness, the market for credit insurance or the willingness of third party finance companies to purchase accounts receivable from us could impact our cash flow from operations. -24- We are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price increases. We obtain materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. In the absence of labor strikes or other unusual circumstances, substantially all materials and components are normally available from multiple suppliers. However, certain of our businesses receive materials and components from a sole supplier, although alternative suppliers of such materials are generally available. Delays in our suppliers’ abilities, especially any sole suppliers for a particular business, to provide us with necessary materials and components may delay production at a number of our manufacturing locations, or may require us to seek alternative supply sources. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired supplier financial condition, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the U.S. and other parts of the world, our suppliers may experience serious cash flow problems, and as a result, could seek to significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output. Worldwide steel prices rose for most of 2008 in response to higher demand caused by continued higher consumption in developing market countries such as China. Due to the continued high demand for steel in 2008, many suppliers of steel, castings and other products increased prices or added surcharges to the price of their products. While we have been able to pass a portion of such increased costs to our customers by way of surcharges and price increases, there is no assurance that increasing costs can continue to be addressed by increases in pricing. Continued increases in material prices could negatively impact our gross margins and financial results. In addition, we purchase material and services from our suppliers on terms extended based on our overall credit rating. Deterioration in our credit rating may impact suppliers’ willingness to extend terms and in turn increase the cash requirements of our business. We have debt outstanding and must comply with restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. Our existing debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants, which limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, dispose of assets and acquire new businesses. These covenants also require us to meet certain financial tests, specifically a consolidated leverage ratio test and a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio test, as such tests are defined in our debt agreements. While we were in compliance with both of the foregoing tests as of December 31, 2008, we sought and received an amendment to our credit agreement on February 24, 2009. This amendment was necessary because of continued deteriorating business conditions in certain of our operating segments and the impact of historical fixed charges incurred on a trailing twelve months basis (for example, interest expense, cash taxes, share repurchases and capital expenditures) causing us to believe there was a likelihood that we would be in violation of the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio covenant under our credit agreement as early as the end of the first quarter of 2009 without such an amendment. Increases in our debt, increases in our fixed charges, decreases in our earnings or any combination of the above, could cause us to be in default of our amended financial covenants during 2009 or beyond. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, there would be a default under these debt agreements. In addition, changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could cause us to default under our debt agreements. A default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in acceleration of our debt and possibly bankruptcy. We are subject to currency fluctuations. Our products are sold in over 100 countries around the world. Our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, including the Euro and British Pound Sterling, while costs incurred to generate our revenues are only partly incurred in the same currencies. Since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, such as the Euro and British Pound Sterling, have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. To reduce this currency exchange risk, we may buy protecting or offsetting positions (known as “hedges”) in certain currencies to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement. We have not engaged in any speculative hedging activities. Although we partially hedge our revenues and costs, currency fluctuations may impact our financial performance in the future. -25- We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. Our international operations are subject to a number of potential risks. Such risks principally include: · trade protection measures and currency exchange controls; · labor unrest; · regional economic conditions; · political instability; · terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto; · restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; · export duties and quotas; · domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; · current and changing regulatory environments; · difficulties protecting our intellectual property; · costs and difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing international operations, especially in developing markets such as China, India, Russia, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America; · difficulty in obtaining distribution support; and · current and changing tax laws. In addition, many of the nations in which we operate have developing legal and economic systems, adding greater uncertainty to our operations in those countries than would be expected in North America and Western Europe. These factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations in the future. Difficulties in managing and expanding into developing markets could divert management's attention from our existing operations. We plan to increase our presence in developing markets such as China, India, Russia, the Middle East and Latin America. Increasing these sales efforts will require us to hire, train and retain qualified personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory barriers may exist. Any difficulties in expanding our sales in developing markets may divert management's attention from our existing operations. We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 20,000 people worldwide, including approximately 7,000 employees in the U.S. Approximately 12% of our employees in the U.S. are represented by labor unions. Outside of the U.S., we enter into employment contracts and collective agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages or other labor matters, we cannot assure that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Compliance with environmental regulations could be costly and require us to make significant expenditures. We generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes in the normal course of our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a wide range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern actions that may have adverse environmental effects and require compliance with certain practices when handling and disposing of hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. These laws and regulations also impose liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances, should any of such events occur. No such incidents have occurred which required us to pay material amounts to comply with such laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations has required, and will continue to require, us to make expenditures that we do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. -26- We face litigation and product liability claims and other liabilities. In our lines of business, numerous suits have been filed alleging damages for accidents that have occurred during the use or operation of our products. We are self-insured, up to certain limits, for these product liability exposures, as well as for certain exposures related to general, workers’ compensation and automobile liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic losses as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. We do not believe that the outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position; however, any significant liabilities not covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We are involved in various other legal proceedings, including an arbitration proceeding initiated by Fantuzzi Industries S.a.r.l. (“Fantuzzi”) in Italy on December 24, 2008 claiming that we improperly terminated the agreements to purchase the port equipment businesses of Fantuzzi. While we believe we have a valid position, the risks of arbitration in Italy are uncertain and, if determined adversely, could ultimately result in us incurring significant liabilities. We are currently the subject of government investigations. We have received a Formal Order of Private Investigation from the SEC advising us that they have commenced an investigation of our accounting. We also received subpoenas and requests for information from the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office in an investigation entitled “In the Matter of United Rentals, Inc.” The requested information generally relates to four transactions during 2000 and 2001 involving United Rentals, on the one hand, and us and our subsidiaries, on the other. We have been cooperating with the requests of the SEC and the U.S. Attorney in these matters to provide the information needed to complete their investigations. The Company is in settlement discussions with the SEC. We are not able to predict the outcome of the SEC’s investigation at this time, and such outcome could be material to our operating results. We have also received subpoenas and requests for information from the DOJ, with respect to an investigation by the DOJ into pricing practices in the rock crushing and screening equipment industry. In connection with this investigation, the DOJ has convened a grand jury. We have been cooperating with the DOJ to furnish information needed to complete its investigation. Until the DOJ investigation is complete, we are not able to predict its outcome. We are in the process of implementing a global enterprise system. We are implementing a global enterprise resource planning system to replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. Such an implementation is a major undertaking both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Should the system not be implemented successfully and within budget, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could disrupt and might adversely affect our operations and results of operations, including our ability to report accurate and timely financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. -27- ITEM 