ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the cautionary statement under the caption “Forward-Looking Information” in Item 7 of this report and the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. Our business is affected by the cyclical nature of the markets we serve. Demand for our products depends upon general economic conditions in the markets in which we compete. Our sales depend in part upon our customers’ replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions, including a decrease in commodity prices, may cause customers to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing machinery. Downward economic cycles may result in reductions in sales of our products, which may reduce our profits. We have taken a number of steps to reduce our fixed costs and diversify our operations to decrease the negative impact of these cycles. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will prevent the negative impact of poor economic conditions. Our business is sensitive to increases in interest rates. We are exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to existing variable rate debt and future issuances of fixed rate debt. Primary exposure includes movements in the U.S. prime rate and the London Interbank Offer Rate (“LIBOR”). We use interest rate swaps to manage our interest rate risk. If interest rates continue to rise, it becomes more costly for our customers to borrow money to pay for the equipment they buy from us. Should the various central banks in our key markets raise interest rates, prospects for business investment and manufacturing could deteriorate sufficiently to impact sales opportunities. Our business is sensitive to government spending. Many of our customers depend substantially on funding of highway construction, maintenance and other infrastructure projects by U.S. federal and state governments and governments in other nations. In addition, we sell products to governments and government agencies in the U.S. and other nations. Any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance, other infrastructure projects and overall government spending could cause our revenues and profits to decrease. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our industry is highly competitive. To compete successfully, our products must excel in terms of quality, price, product line, ease of use, safety and comfort, and we must also provide excellent customer service. The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage. If competition in our industry intensifies or if our current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, we may lose sales or be required to lower the prices we charge for our products. This may reduce revenue from our products and services, lower our gross margins or cause us to lose market share. We rely on key management. We rely on the management and leadership skills of Ronald M. DeFeo, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. DeFeo has been with us since 1992, has been Chief Executive Officer since 1995 and Chairman since 1998, and has overseen the transformation of Terex during that time. We have an employment agreement with Mr. DeFeo, which expires on December 31, 2012. The loss of his services could have a significant, negative impact on our business. Mr. DeFeo also served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Terex from October 1993 through January 2007. In January 2007, Mr. DeFeo stepped down from those posts, and we hired an executive from outside of Terex to serve in that role, which, among other benefits, is intended to limit the detrimental impact should we lose Mr. DeFeo’s services. In addition, we rely on the management and leadership skills of our other senior executives. During 2006, we added a number of new senior executives to our management team from outside of Terex. These executives are not bound by employment agreements. We could be harmed by the loss of any of these senior executives or other key personnel in the future. -22- Some of our customers rely on financing with third parties to purchase our products. We rely on sales of our products to generate cash from operations. A significant portion of our sales are financed by third party finance companies on behalf of our customers. The availability of financing by third parties is affected by general economic conditions, the credit worthiness of our customers and the estimated residual value of our equipment. Deterioration in the credit quality of our customers or the estimated residual value of our equipment could negatively impact the ability of our customers to obtain the resources they need to make purchases of our equipment. We provide financing for some of our customers. We, directly and through joint ventures, provide financing for some of our customers, primarily in Europe and the United States, to purchase our equipment. For the most part, this financing represents sales type leases and operating leases. It has been our policy to provide such financing to our customers in situations where we anticipate that we will be able to sell the financing obligations to a third party financial institution within a short period. However, until such financing obligations are sold to a third party or if we are unable to sell such obligations to a third party, we retain the risks resulting from such customer financing. Our results could be adversely affected in the event that such customers default on their contractual obligations to us. Our results also could be adversely affected if the residual values of such leased equipment declines below its original estimated values and we are forced to subsequently sell such equipment at a loss. We insure and sell a portion of our accounts receivable to third party finance companies. These third party finance companies are not obligated to purchase accounts receivable from us, and may choose to limit or discontinue further purchases from us at any time. Changes in our customers’ credit worthiness, in the market for credit insurance or in the willingness of third party finance companies to purchase accounts receivable from us could impact our cash flow from operations. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price increases. We obtain materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Any delay in our suppliers’ abilities to provide us with necessary materials and components may affect our capabilities at a number of our manufacturing locations, or may require us to seek alternative supply sources. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired supplier financial condition, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. For example, we have recently had difficulty in obtaining some of our necessary components, including large off-highway tires, steel and steel products, bearings, gear boxes and various fabricated weldments. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Recently, market prices of some of our key materials have increased significantly as a result of higher global demand for these materials caused by recovering end-markets in our product areas and by higher consumption from emerging economies such as China. While we have been able to pass a portion of such increased costs to our customers by way of surcharges and price increases, there is no assurance that increasing costs can continue to be addressed by increases in pricing. Continued increases in material prices could negatively impact our gross margins and financial results. In addition, we purchase material and services from our suppliers on terms extended based on our overall credit rating. Negative changes in our credit rating may impact suppliers’ willingness to extend terms and in turn increase the cash requirements of our business. We have debt outstanding and must comply with restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. Our existing debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants, which limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, dispose of assets and acquire new businesses. These covenants also require us to meet certain financial tests. Specifically, these financial tests are a consolidated leverage ratio test and a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio test, as such tests are defined in our debt agreements. While we are currently in compliance with both of the foregoing tests, increases in our debt or decreases in our earnings could cause us to be in default of these financial covenants. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, there would be a default under these debt agreements. In addition, changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could cause us to default under our debt agreements. A default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in acceleration of our debt and possibly bankruptcy. We are subject to currency fluctuations. Our products are sold in over 100 countries around the world. Our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, including the Euro and British Pound Sterling, while costs incurred to generate our revenues are only partly incurred in the same currencies. Since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. -23- Dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. To reduce this currency exchange risk, we may buy protecting or offsetting positions (known as “hedges”) in certain currencies to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement. We have not engaged in any speculative or profit motivated hedging activities. Although we partially hedge our revenues and costs, currency fluctuations may impact our financial performance in the future. We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. Our international operations are subject to a number of potential risks. Such risks principally include: • trade protection measures and currency exchange controls; • labor unrest; • regional economic uncertainty; • political instability; • terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • export duties and quotas; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • current and changing regulatory environments; • difficulty in obtaining distribution support; and • current and changing tax laws in foreign countries. In addition, many of the nations in which we operate have developing legal and economic systems, adding a level of uncertainty to our operations in those countries relative to those that would be expected domestically. These factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations in the future. We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. As of December 31, 2006, the Company employed approximately 18,000 persons worldwide. Approximately 33% of our employees are represented by labor unions, or similar employee organizations outside the United States, which have entered into various separate collective bargaining agreements with us. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages or other labor matters, we cannot assure that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Compliance with environmental regulations could be costly and require us to make significant expenditures. We generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes in the normal course of our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a wide range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern actions that may have adverse environmental effects and require compliance with certain practices when handling and disposing of hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. These laws and regulations also impose liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances, should any of such events occur. No such incidents have occurred which required us to pay material amounts to comply with such laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations has required, and will continue to require, us to make expenditures. We do not expect that these expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. We face product liability claims and other liabilities due to the nature of our business. In our lines of business, numerous suits have been filed alleging damages for accidents that have occurred during the use or operation of our products. We are self-insured, up to certain limits, for these product liability exposures, as well as for certain exposures related to general, workers’ compensation and automobile liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic losses as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. We do not believe that the outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position; however, any liabilities not covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We are currently the subject of government investigations. We have received a Formal Order of Private Investigation from the SEC advising us that they have commenced an investigation of our accounting. We also received a subpoena from the SEC in an investigation entitled “In the Matter of United Rentals, Inc.” This subpoena requested information to assist the SEC in its investigation of four transactions during 2000 and 2001 involving United -24- Rentals, on the one hand, and Terex or a Terex subsidiary (prior to its acquisition by Terex), on the other. We have been cooperating with the SEC, and will continue to cooperate fully to furnish the SEC staff with information needed to complete their investigation. Until the SEC’s investigation of the Company is complete, we are not able to predict the outcome of the SEC’s investigation. We have also received subpoenas from the United States Department of Justice, Antitrust Division (“DOJ”), with respect to an investigation by the DOJ into pricing practices in the rock crushing and screening equipment industry. We are cooperating fully with the DOJ in its investigation and will continue to cooperate fully to furnish the DOJ with information needed to complete its investigation. Until the DOJ investigation is complete, we are not able to predict the outcome of the DOJ investigation. As of December 31, 2006, we did not maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures and adequate internal control over financial reporting. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As of December 31, 2005, we did not maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, as there were two material weaknesses that existed as of December 31, 2005. One of these material weaknesses was remediated in 2006. However, one material weakness that existed as of December 31, 2005 still existed as of December 31, 2006, related to internal control over our accounting for income taxes. If we do not remediate our material weakness that existed as of December 31, 2006, this material weakness could result in a misstatement of our accounts in a future period that would result in a material misstatement to our annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. In addition, if we do not improve our disclosure controls and procedures, in this regard, we may be delayed in filing future periodic reports with the SEC. We are in the process of implementing a global enterprise system. We have begun the implementation of a global enterprise system which will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. Such an implementation is a major undertaking both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Should the system not be implemented successfully and within budget, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect our operations and results of operations, including our ability to report accurate and timely financial results. We currently face limitations on our ability to access the capital markets using short form SEC documents. Our ability to access the capital markets is subject to our timely filing of periodic reports with the SEC, and our recent failure to file certain periodic reports on a timely basis will limit our ability to access the capital markets using short-form registration through May 31, 2007. We may face limitations on our ability to integrate acquired businesses. We have completed a number of acquisitions since 2000. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. While we believe we have successfully integrated these acquisitions to date, we cannot ensure that these acquired companies will operate profitably or that the intended beneficial effect from these acquisitions will be realized. Further, in connection with acquisitions, we may need to consolidate or restructure our acquired or existing facilities, which may require expenditures for severance obligations related to reductions in workforce and other charges resulting from the consolidations or restructurings, such as write-down of inventory and lease termination costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. -25- ITEM 