ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the cautionary statement under the caption “Forward-Looking Information” above and the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. Our business is affected by the cyclical nature of the markets we serve. Demand for our products depends upon general economic conditions in the markets in which we compete. Our sales depend in part upon our customers’ replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions, including the severe global recession in 2009, have caused and may continue to cause customers to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of reducing their existing fleets or refurbishing or repairing existing machinery. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products will adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. We are in a period in which economic conditions have declined significantly in many key markets, and if economic conditions in the U.S. and other key markets deteriorate further or do not show improvement, we expect to experience further negative impacts to our financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows. Given the uncertainty around the depth and duration of the current recession, we may experience continued reductions in sales of our products and/or the carrying value of our assets, which would reduce our profitability. We have taken a number of steps and will continually review our operations to manage our working capital and reduce our costs, including but not limited to reducing headcount, exiting certain facilities and diversifying our business to decrease the negative impact of these cycles. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will mitigate the negative impact of the recent deterioration in economic conditions. The sale of our Mining business will have an impact on our Company. On December 20, 2009, we entered into an agreement to sell our Mining business to Bucyrus and on February 19, 2010, we completed this disposition. Our Mining business accounted for an average of approximately 12% of our net sales and 14% of our operating profits annually during the period from 2004 to 2008. The Mining business also accounted for approximately 19% of our working capital investment during this period. The sale of this business reduces the diversity of the portfolio of businesses that make up Terex, and our Company is therefore more sensitive to changes in any of our remaining business segments and is more prone to risks affecting these operations. 21 Table of Contents We anticipate using a portion of the proceeds of the sale of the Mining business to fund acquisitions. We believe that current economic conditions have made it possible to find attractive businesses where we can re-deploy these proceeds in complementary product and market areas. However, the successful integration of any new businesses we purchase depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and coordinate their activities with those of other Terex operations to realize expected synergies. In addition, to the extent that we are seeking acquisitions in machinery and industrial businesses that are significantly different from our existing operations, there will be added risks and challenges for managing and integrating these businesses. We cannot ensure that newly acquired companies will operate profitably or that the intended beneficial effect from these acquisitions will be realized. Further, in connection with acquisitions, we may need to consolidate or restructure our acquired or existing facilities, which may require expenditures related to reductions in workforce and other charges resulting from the consolidations or restructurings, such as the write-down of inventory and lease termination costs. In addition, it is possible that we will not be able to find attractive businesses to acquire at reasonable prices. If we cannot utilize the proceeds of the Mining business sale for acquisitions or to invest in our current operations, we are required to use these funds to retire a portion of our existing indebtedness. We received approximately $300 million of the proceeds from the sale of the Mining business in the stock of the acquiring company, Bucyrus, in the form of 5,809,731 shares of Bucyrus common stock. Our agreement with Bucyrus restricts our ability to directly or indirectly sell or otherwise transfer our economic interest in these shares of Bucyrus stock for a period of one year, although Bucyrus has agreed to provide us with registration rights, including demand registration and shelf registration rights, to facilitate our sale of the shares of Bucyrus stock after the initial one-year holding period. We will have significant financial exposure to the price of Bucyrus stock until we sell the shares, as we will own more than 5% of the total outstanding number of shares of Bucyrus common stock. Bucyrus stock is traded on NASDAQ and is subject to substantial price fluctuation and volatility. Our obligation to hold these shares for a one-year period leaves us exposed to these price movements. We have analyzed a number of alternatives to hedge our financial exposure in the Bucyrus shares in compliance with our stockholders’ agreement. Accordingly, in 2010 we have entered into a series of derivatives contracts to hedge a portion of the risk using a basket of stocks in companies in a similar industry to Bucyrus, and may increase or decrease these hedges over time. These stocks have historically been highly correlated to the Bucyrus stock price. If the correlations remain at their historic levels, we believe these derivatives will hedge a portion of our economic risk of ownership of the Bucyrus stock. However, there can be no assurances that these correlations will continue during the term of the derivative contracts and, as a result, these derivatives may not hedge our entire economic risk. Any decline in the value of the Bucyrus stock that is not adequately hedged may reduce our income. Our access to borrowing capacity has been and could continue to be affected by the uncertainty impacting credit markets generally. Our access to capital markets to raise funds through the sale of equity or debt securities is subject to various factors, including general economic and/or financial market conditions. As a result of current economic conditions, including turmoil and uncertainty in the capital markets, credit markets have tightened significantly, which makes obtaining new capital more challenging and more expensive. Current conditions in the financial markets have reduced the availability of credit and liquidity resources and our access to capital markets is limited and subject to increased costs. In addition, several large financial institutions have either failed or relied on the assistance of sovereign governments to continue to operate as a going concern. Although we believe that the banks participating in our credit facility have adequate capital and resources, we can provide no assurance that all of these banks will continue to operate as a going concern in the future. If any of the banks in our lending group were to fail, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our credit facility would be reduced. If the availability under our credit facility was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources to finance our capital needs. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to (i) obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of our credit facility, or (ii) accessing the public capital markets. If it becomes necessary to access additional capital, it is likely that any such alternatives in the current market would be on terms less favorable than under our existing credit facility terms, which could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business is sensitive to government spending. Many of our customers depend substantially on government funding of highway construction, maintenance and other infrastructure projects. In addition, we sell products to governments and government agencies in the U.S. and other nations. Any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance, other infrastructure projects and overall government spending could cause our revenues and profits to decrease. 22 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our industry is highly competitive. To compete successfully, our products must excel in terms of quality, price, features, ease of use, safety and comfort, and we must also provide excellent customer service. The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage. If competition in our industry intensifies or if our current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, we may lose sales or be required to lower the prices we charge for our products. This may reduce revenue from our products and services, lower our gross margins or cause us to lose market share. We have suffered and may suffer further losses from operations. Terex had a loss from operations of $459.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We expect approximately break-even operating earnings for the Company for the 2010 fiscal year, and anticipate that net interest expense will result in a net loss for the year. Although we have taken substantial steps to improve our operating performance, there can be no assurances that we will not suffer a loss in the 2010 fiscal year or in any future years. If we remain unable to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, this can have a number of negative impacts on the Company. For example, continued losses may require us to record goodwill impairments in some of our reporting units or impair the value of some of our long-lived assets. Sustained operating losses may also impact our compliance with our covenants under our bank credit facility and the indentures for our various outstanding debt securities. A material disruption to one of our significant manufacturing plants could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We produce most of our machines and aftermarket parts for each product type at one manufacturing facility. If operations at a significant facility were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, work stoppages, power outages or other reasons, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. Interruptions in production could increase costs and delay delivery of units in production. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until production capacity is available. We rely on key management. We rely on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team, particularly Ronald M. DeFeo, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. DeFeo has been with us since 1992, serving as Chief Executive Officer since 1995 and Chairman since 1998, guiding the transformation of Terex during that time. We have an employment agreement with Mr. DeFeo, which expires on December 31, 2012. The loss of his services could have a significant impact on our business. Our other senior executives are not bound by employment agreements. We could be harmed by the loss of any of these senior executives or other key personnel in the future. Some of our customers rely on financing with third parties to purchase our products. We rely on sales of our products to generate cash from operations. Significant portions of our sales are financed by third party finance companies on behalf of our customers. The availability of financing by third parties is affected by general economic conditions, the credit worthiness of our customers and the estimated residual value of our equipment. Deterioration in the credit quality of our customers or the estimated residual value of our equipment could negatively impact the ability of our customers to obtain the resources they need to purchase our equipment. Given the current economic conditions and the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets, there can be no assurance that third party finance companies will continue to extend credit to our customers. Due to the significant global economic decline and the resulting widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, some of our customers have been unable to obtain the credit they need to buy our equipment. As a result, some of our customers may need to cancel existing orders. Given the lack of liquidity, our customers may be compelled to sell their equipment at less than fair value to raise cash, which could have a negative impact on residual values of our equipment. These economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. We provide financing for some of our customers. We provide financing for some of our customers, primarily in the U.S., to purchase our equipment. For the most part, this financing represents sales-type leases and operating leases. It has been our policy to provide such financing to our customers in situations where we anticipate that we will be able to sell the financing obligations to a third-party financial institution within a short period. However, until such financing obligations are sold to a third party or if we are unable to sell such obligations to a third party, we retain the risks resulting from such customer financing. Our results could be adversely affected if such customers default on their contractual obligations to us. Our results also could be adversely affected if the residual values of such leased equipment decline below their original estimated values and we subsequently sell such equipment at a loss. 23 Table of Contents We are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price increases. We obtain materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. In the absence of labor strikes or other unusual circumstances, substantially all materials and components are normally available from multiple suppliers. However, certain of our businesses receive materials and components from a sole supplier, although alternative suppliers of such materials are generally available. Delays in our suppliers’ abilities, especially any sole suppliers for a particular business, to provide us with necessary materials and components may delay production at a number of our manufacturing locations, or may require us to seek alternative supply sources. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired supplier financial condition, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we purchase material and services from our suppliers on terms extended based on our overall credit rating. Deterioration in our credit rating may impact suppliers’ willingness to extend terms and in turn increase the cash requirements of our business. We have debt outstanding and must comply with restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. Our existing debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants, which limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, dispose of assets and acquire new businesses. These covenants also require us to maintain liquidity of not less than $250 million on the last day of each fiscal quarter through June 30, 2011 and, thereafter, maintain a specified senior secured debt leverage ratio. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, there would be a default under these debt agreements. Changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could cause us to default under its debt agreements. A default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in acceleration of our debt and possibly bankruptcy. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control and our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Lower revenues, or uncollectible receivables, generally will reduce our cash flow. We cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We are subject to currency fluctuations. Our products are sold in over 100 countries around the world. Our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, including the Euro and British Pound Sterling, while costs incurred to generate our revenues are only partly incurred in the same currencies. Since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, such as the Euro and British Pound Sterling, have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. To reduce this currency exchange risk, we may buy protecting or offsetting positions (known as “hedges”) in certain currencies to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement. We have not engaged in any speculative hedging activities. Although we partially hedge our revenues and costs, currency fluctuations may impact our financial performance in the future. 24 Table of Contents We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. Our international operations are subject to a number of potential risks. Such risks principally include: · trade protection measures and currency exchange controls; · labor unrest; · regional economic conditions; · political instability; · terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto; · restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; · export duties and quotas; · domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; · current and changing regulatory environments; · difficulties protecting our intellectual property; · costs and difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing international operations, especially in developing markets such as China, India, Russia, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America; · difficulty in obtaining distribution support; and · current and changing tax laws. In addition, many of the nations in which we operate have developing legal and economic systems adding greater uncertainty to our operations in those countries than would be expected in North America and Western Europe. These factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations in the future. Difficulties in managing and expanding into developing markets could divert management’s attention from our existing operations. We plan to increase our presence in developing markets such as China, India, Russia, the Middle East and Latin America. Increasing these sales efforts will require us to hire, train and retain qualified personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory barriers may exist. Any significant difficulties in expanding our sales in developing markets may divert management’s attention from our existing operations. We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 15,900 people worldwide, including approximately 5,000 employees in the U.S. Approximately 11% of our employees in the U.S. are represented by labor unions. Outside of the U.S., we enter into employment contracts and collective agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages or other labor matters, we cannot assure that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Compliance with environmental regulations could be costly and require us to make significant expenditures. We generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes in the normal course of our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a wide range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern actions that may have adverse environmental effects and require compliance with certain practices when handling and disposing of hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. These laws and regulations also impose liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances, should any of such events occur. No such incidents have occurred which required us to pay material amounts to comply with such laws and regulations. In addition, increasing laws and regulations dealing with the environmental aspects of the products we manufacture can result in significant expenditures in designing and manufacturing new forms of equipment that satisfy such new laws and regulations. Government policies limiting greenhouse gas emissions of our products, for example, will require compliance expenditures on our part to produce compliant products. Compliance with these laws and regulations has required, and will continue to require, us to make expenditures that we do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We face litigation and product liability claims, class action lawsuits and other liabilities. In our lines of business, numerous suits have been filed alleging damages for accidents that have occurred during the use or operation of our products. We are self-insured, up to certain limits, for these product liability exposures, as well as for certain exposures related to general, workers’ compensation and automobile liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic losses as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. We do not believe that the outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position; however, any significant liabilities not covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We are the subject of several class action lawsuits. These lawsuits generally cover the same time periods and allege, among other things, that certain of our SEC filings and other public statements contained false and misleading statements which resulted in damages to the plaintiffs and the members of the purported class when they purchased our securities and that there were breaches of fiduciary duties and of disclosure requirements under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). We believe that the allegations in the suits are completely without merit, and Terex and the named executives will vigorously defend against them. We believe that we have acted, and continue to act, in compliance with federal securities laws and ERISA law. However, the outcome of the lawsuits cannot be predicted and, if determined adversely, could ultimately result in us incurring significant liabilities. We must comply with an injunction and related obligations resulting from the settlement of an SEC investigation. In August 2009, a final court decree formalized the settlement that was entered into to resolve the previously disclosed SEC investigation of Terex related mainly to (1) certain transactions between us and United Rentals, Inc. that took place in 2000 and 2001, and one transaction between United Rentals, Inc. and one of our subsidiaries that took place in 2001 before that subsidiary was acquired by Terex, and (2) the circumstances of the restatement of certain of our financial statements for the years 2000-2004. The settlement resolved all matters relating to the potential liability of Terex, but did not address our current or former employees. Under the terms of the settlement, we consented, without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations, to the entry of a judgment which enjoins us from committing or aiding and abetting any future violations of the anti-fraud, books and records, reporting and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws and related SEC rules. We also paid a civil penalty of $8 million in August 2009, for which we recorded a charge in the quarter ended June 30, 2009. As a result, we and our directors, officers and employees are required to comply at all times with the terms of this injunction. If we commit or aid or abet any future violations of the anti-fraud, books and records, reporting and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws and related SEC rules, we are likely to suffer severe penalties, financial and otherwise, that could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. Further, as a result of the settlement and final court decree, for a period of three years, or such earlier time as we are able to obtain a waiver from the SEC, (i) we are no longer qualified as a “well known seasoned issuer” (“WKSI”) as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, and cannot take advantage of the benefits available to a WKSI, (ii) we cannot rely on the safe harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements provided by the regulations issued under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (iii) we cannot utilize Regulation A or D. Taken together, these rules limit our ability to access the capital markets and utilize certain provisions available generally to other U.S. public companies. We are currently the subject of a Department of Justice investigation. We have received subpoenas and requests for information from the DOJ with respect to a criminal antitrust investigation by the DOJ into pricing practices in the U.S. rock crushing and screening equipment industry. In connection with this investigation, the DOJ has convened a grand jury. We have been cooperating with the DOJ to furnish information needed to complete its investigation. Until the DOJ investigation is complete, we are not able to predict its outcome. We are in the process of implementing a global enterprise system. We are implementing a global enterprise resource planning system to replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. Such an implementation is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Should the system not be implemented successfully and within budget, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could disrupt and might adversely affect our operations and results of operations, including our ability to report accurate and timely financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents 