ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the cautionary statement under the caption “Forward-Looking Information” above and the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. Our business is affected by the cyclical nature of the markets we serve. Demand for our products depends upon general economic conditions in the markets in which we compete. We cannot provide any assurance that the global economic weakness of the past several years will not continue or become more severe. If the global economy does not improve it may cause customers to continue to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of reducing their existing fleets or refurbishing or repairing existing machinery. Our sales depend in part upon our customers’ replacement or repair cycles. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. If the global economic weakness of the past several years continues or becomes more severe, or if any economic recovery progresses more slowly than our o r market expectations, then there could be an adverse effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flow and could result in the need for us to record inventory impairments. -19- We may face limitations on our ability to integrate acquired businesses. From time to time we make acquisitions and we anticipate making additional acquisitions in the future. However, the successful integration of any previously acquired or newly acquired business depends on our ability to manage these new businesses, coordinate their activities with those of other Terex operations to realize expected synergies, and implement effective internal control processes in these acquired businesses. While we believe we have successfully integrated acquisitions to date, we cannot ensure that previously acquired or newly acquired companies will operate profitably, that the intended beneficial effect from these acquisitions will be realized and that we will not encounter difficulties in implementing effective internal control processes in these acquired businesses, particularly when the acquired business operates in foreign jurisdictions and/or was privately own ed. See the risk factor entitled “We must comply with an injunction and related obligations resulting from the settlement of an SEC investigation” for additional consequences if we were to commit a violation of the reporting and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws. In addition, to the extent that we are seeking acquisitions in machinery and industrial businesses that are significantly different from our existing operations, there will be added risks and challenges for managing and integrating these businesses. Further, we may need to consolidate or restructure our acquired or existing facilities, which may require expenditures related to reductions in workforce and other charges resulting from the consolidations or restructurings, such as the write-down of inventory and lease termination costs. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our access to capital markets and borrowing capacity has been and could continue to be limited. Our access to capital markets to raise funds through the sale of equity or debt securities is subject to various factors, including general economic and/or financial market conditions. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce our earnings and cash flows. Currently, as our consolidated cash flow coverage ratio is less than 2.0 to 1.0, we are subject to significant restrictions on the amount of indebtedness that we can incur. Although we expect our cash flow coverage ratio to be greater than 2.0 to 1.0 by the end of 2011, there can be no assurance that this will occur. Our access to debt financing at competitive risk-based interest rates is partly a function of our credit ratings. A downgrade to our credit ratings could increase our interest rates, could limit our access to public debt markets, could limit the institutions willing to provide us credit facilities, and could make any future credit facilities or credit facility amendments more costly and/or difficult to obtain. In addition, in the past several years a number of large financial institutions have either failed or relied on the assistance of sovereign governments to continue to operate as a going concern. Although we believe that the banks participating in our credit facility have adequate capital and resources, we can provide no assurance that all of these banks will continue to operate as a going concern in the future. If any of the banks in our lending group were to fail or be unwilling to renew our credit facility at or prior to its expiration, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our current or any future credit facility would be reduced. If the availability under our credit facility was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources to finance our capital needs. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, b ut not be limited to (i) obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of our credit facility, or (ii) accessing the public capital markets. If it becomes necessary to access additional capital, it is possible that any such alternatives in the current market could be on terms less favorable than under our existing credit facility terms, which could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business is sensitive to government spending. Many of our customers depend substantially on government funding of highway construction, maintenance and other infrastructure projects. In addition, we sell products to governments and government agencies in the U.S. and other nations. Any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance, other infrastructure projects and overall government spending could cause our revenues and profits to decrease. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our industry is highly competitive. To compete successfully, our products must excel in terms of quality, price, features, ease of use, safety and comfort, and we must also provide excellent customer service. The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Low-cost competition from China and other developing markets could also result in decreased demand for our products. If competition in our industry intensifies or if our current competitors lower their prices for competing products, we may lose sales or be required to lower the prices we charge for our products. If we are unable to provide continued technological improvements in our equipment that meet our customers’ expectations, or the industry’s expectations, the demand for our equipment could be substantially adversely affected. This ma y reduce revenue from our products and services, lower our gross margins or cause us to lose market share. -20- We have suffered and may suffer further losses from operations. Terex had a loss from operations of $401.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and a loss from operations of $73.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Although we have taken substantial steps to improve our operating performance, there can be no assurances that we will be profitable in the 2011 fiscal year or in any future years. If we remain unable to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, this can have a number of negative impacts on the Company. For example, continued losses may require us to record goodwill impairments in some of our reporting units or impair the value of some of our long-lived assets. Sustained operating losses may also impact our compliance with our covenants under our bank credit facility and the indentures for our various outstanding debt securities. A material disruption to one of our significant manufacturing plants could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We produce most of our machines and aftermarket parts for each product type at one manufacturing facility. If operations at a significant facility were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, work stoppages, power outages or other reasons, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. Interruptions in production could increase costs and delay delivery of units in production. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until production capacity is available. We rely on key management. We rely on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team, particularly Ronald M. DeFeo, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. DeFeo has been with us since 1992, serving as Chief Executive Officer since 1995 and Chairman since 1998, guiding the transformation of Terex during that time. We have an employment agreement with Mr. DeFeo, which expires on December 31, 2012. The loss of his services could have a significant impact on our business. Our other senior executives are not bound by employment agreements. We could be harmed by the loss of any of these senior executives or other key personnel in the future. Some of our customers rely on financing with third parties to purchase our products. We rely on sales of our products to generate cash from operations. Significant portions of our sales are financed by third party finance companies on behalf of our customers. The availability of financing by third parties is affected by general economic conditions, the credit worthiness of our customers and the estimated residual value of our equipment. Deterioration in the credit quality of our customers or the estimated residual value of our equipment could negatively impact the ability of our customers to obtain the resources they need to purchase our equipment. Given the current economic conditions, there can be no assurance that third party finance companies will continue to extend credit to our customers. Due to the ongoing weakness in certain global economies, some of our customers have been unable to obtain the credit they need to buy our equipment. As a result, some of our customers may need to cancel existing orders. Given the lack of liquidity, our customers may be compelled to sell their equipment at less than fair value to raise cash, which could have a negative impact on residual values of our equipment. These economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. We provide financing and credit support for some of our customers. We assist customers in their rental, leasing and acquisition of our products through TFS. We provide financing for some of our customers, primarily in the U.S. to acquire and use our equipment through loans, sales-type leases, and operating leases. TFS enters into these financing agreements with the intent either to hold the financing until maturity or to sell the financing to a third party within a short time period. Until such financing obligations are satisfied through either customer payments or a third party sale, we retain the risks associated with such customer financing. Our results could be adversely affected if such customers default on their contractual obligations to us or if the residual values of such equipment on these transactions decline below the original estimated values. -21- As described above, our customers, from time to time, may fund the acquisition of our equipment through third-party finance companies. In certain instances, we may provide credit guarantees, residual value guarantees or buyback guarantees. With these guarantees we must assess the probability of losses or non-performance in ways similar to the evaluation of accounts receivable, including consideration of a customer’s payment history, leverage, availability of third party financing, political and exchange risks, and other factors. Many of these factors, including the assessment of a customer’s ability to pay, are influenced by economic and market factors that cannot be predicted with certainty. In circumstances where we believe it is probable that a specific customer will have difficulty meeting its financial obligations, a specific reserve is recorded to recognize a liability for a guarantee we expect to pay, taking into account any amounts that we would anticipate realizing if we are forced to repossess the equipment that supports the customer’s financial obligations to us. During periods of economic weakness, the collateral underlying our guarantees of indebtedness of customers or receivables can decline sharply, thereby increasing our exposure to losses. In the future, we may incur losses in excess of our recorded reserves if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate further or the full amount of any anticipated proceeds from the sale of the collateral supporting our customers’ financial obligations is not realized. To date, losses related to guarantees have been negligible, however there can be no assurance that our historical experience with respect to guarantees will be indicative of future results. We may experience losses in excess of our recorded reserves for doubtful accounts. As of December 31, 2010, we had trade receivables of $782.5 million. We evaluate the collectability of open accounts, finance receivables and notes receivable based on a combination of factors and establish reserves based on our estimates of potential losses. In circumstances where we believe it is probable that a specific customer will have difficulty meeting its financial obligations, a specific reserve is recorded to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount we expect to collect. We also establish additional reserves based upon our perception of the quality of the current receivables, the current financial position of our customers and past collections experience. Continued economic weakness could result in additional requirements for specific reserves, which could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price increases. We obtain materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. In the absence of labor strikes or other unusual circumstances, substantially all materials and components are normally available from multiple suppliers. However, certain of our businesses receive materials and components from a single source supplier, although alternative suppliers of such materials are generally available. Delays in our suppliers’ abilities, especially any sole suppliers for a particular business, to provide us with necessary materials and components may delay production at a number of our manufacturing locations, or may require us to seek alternative supply sources. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting our suppliers, including capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired supplier financial condition, suppliers’ allocations t o other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we purchase material and services from our suppliers on terms extended based on our overall credit rating. Deterioration in our credit rating may impact suppliers’ willingness to extend terms and in turn increase the cash requirements of our business. We have debt outstanding and must comply with restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. Our existing debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants, which limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, dispose of assets and acquire new businesses. These covenants also require us to maintain liquidity of not less than $250 million on the last day of each fiscal quarter through June 30, 2011 and, thereafter, maintain a specified senior secured debt leverage ratio. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, there would be a default under these debt agreements. Changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could cause us to default under our debt agreements. A default, if not w aived by our lenders, could result in acceleration of our debt and possibly bankruptcy. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control and our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Lower sales, or uncollectible receivables, generally will reduce our cash flow. We cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. -22- If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We are subject to currency fluctuations. Our products are sold in over 100 countries around the world. Our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, including the Euro and British Pound Sterling, while costs incurred to generate our revenues are only partly incurred in the same currencies. Since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, such as the Euro and British Pound Sterling, have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. To reduce this currency exchange risk, we may buy protecting or offsetting positions (known as “hedges”) in certain currencies to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement. We have not engaged in any speculative hedging activities. Although we partially hedge our revenues and costs, currency fluctuations may impact our financial performance in the future. We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. Our international operations are subject to a number of potential risks. Such risks principally include: · trade protection measures and currency exchange controls; · labor unrest; · regional economic conditions; · political instability; · terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto; · restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; · export duties and quotas; · domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; · current and changing regulatory environments; · difficulties protecting our intellectual property; · transportation delays and interruptions; · costs and difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing international operations, especially in developing markets such as China, India, Brazil, Russia and the Middle East; · difficulty in obtaining distribution support; and · current and changing tax laws. In addition, many of the nations in which we operate have developing legal and economic systems adding greater uncertainty to our operations in those countries than would be expected in North America and Western Europe. These factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations in the future. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (“FCPA”) and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our international activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments in violation of the FCPA by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. Any violations of the FCPA could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including our business with the U.S. government. Difficulties in managing and expanding into developing markets could divert management’s attention from our existing operations. We plan to increase our presence in developing markets such as China, India, Brazil, Russia and the Middle East. Increasing these efforts will require us to hire, train and retain qualified personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory barriers may exist. Any significant difficulties in expanding our operations in developing markets may divert management’s attention from our existing operations. Expansion into developing markets may require modification of products to meet local requirements or preferences. Modification to the design of our products to meet local requirements and preferences may take longer or be more costly than we anticipate and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve international sales growth. -23- We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 16,300 people worldwide, including approximately 5,600 employees in the U.S. Approximately 5% of our employees in the U.S. are represented by labor unions. Outside of the U.S., we enter into employment contracts and collective agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. We have collective agreements that are set to expire in 2011. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages or other labor matters, we cannot assure that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Compliance with environmental regulations could be costly and require us to make significant expenditures. We generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes in the normal course of our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a wide range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern actions that may have adverse environmental effects and require compliance with certain practices when handling and disposing of hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. These laws and regulations also impose liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances, should any of such events occur. No such incidents have occurred which required us to pay material amounts to comply with such laws and regulations. In addition, increasing laws and regulations dealing with the environmental aspects of the products we manufacture can result in significant expenditures in designing and manufacturing new forms of equipment that satisfy such new laws and regulations. In particular, climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. While additional regulation of emissions in the future appears likely, it is too early to predict how this regulation will ultimately affect our business, operations or financial results, although government policies limiting greenhouse gas emissions of our products will likely require increased compliance expenditures on our p art. Compliance with these laws and regulations has required, and will continue to require, us to make expenditures, however we do not expect these expenditures to have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We face litigation and product liability claims, class action lawsuits and other liabilities. In our lines of business, numerous suits have been filed alleging damages for accidents that have occurred during the use or operation of our products. We are also engaged as a defendant in various legal proceedings with respect to intellectual property rights. For more detail, see “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” We are self-insured, up to certain limits, for these product liability exposures, as well as for certain exposures related to general, workers’ compensation and automobile liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic losses as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. We do not believe that the outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position; however, any significant liabilities not covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on our financial con dition. We are the subject of a securities class action lawsuit, an Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) class action lawsuit and a stockholder derivative lawsuit. These lawsuits generally cover the time period from February 2008 to February 2009 and allege, among other things, that certain of our SEC filings and other public statements contained false and misleading statements which resulted in damages to the plaintiffs and the members of the purported class when they purchased our securities and that there were breaches of fiduciary duties and of disclosure requirements under ERISA. We believe that the allegations in the suits are completely without merit, and Terex, its directors and the named executives will vigorously defend against them. We believe that we have acted, and continue to act, in compliance with federal securities laws and ERISA l aw with respect to these matters. However, the outcome of the lawsuits cannot be predicted and, if determined adversely, could ultimately result in us incurring significant liabilities. We must comply with an injunction and related obligations resulting from the settlement of an SEC investigation. In August 2009, a final court decree formalized the settlement that was entered into to resolve the previously disclosed SEC investigation of Terex related mainly to (1) certain transactions between us and United Rentals, Inc. that took place in 2000 and 2001, and one transaction between United Rentals, Inc. and one of our subsidiaries that took place in 2001 before that subsidiary was acquired by Terex, and (2) the circumstances of the restatement of certain of our financial statements for the years 2000-2004. The settlement resolved all matters relating to the potential liability of Terex, but did not address our current or former employees. Under the terms of the settlement, we paid a civil penalty of $8 million in August 2009 and we consented, without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations, to the entry of a judgment which enjoins us from committing or aiding and abetting any future violations of the anti-fraud, books and records, reporting and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws and related SEC rules. -24- We and our directors, officers and employees are required to comply at all times with the terms of this injunction. In addition, in 1999 regarding a separate and unrelated SEC investigation, we consented to the entry of an administrative cease and desist order prohibiting future violations of certain provisions of the federal securities laws. As a result, if we commit or aid or abet any future violations of the anti-fraud, books and records, reporting and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws and related SEC rules, we are likely to suffer severe penalties, financial and otherwise, that could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. Further, as a result of the settlement and final court decree in August 2009, for a period of three years, or such earlier time as we are able to obtain a waiver from the SEC, (i) we are no longer qualified as a “well known seasoned issuer” (“WKSI”) as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, and cannot take advantage of the benefits available to a WKSI, (ii) we cannot rely on the safe harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements provided by the regulations issued under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (iii) we cannot utilize Regulation A or D. Taken together, these rules limit our ability to access the capital markets and utilize certain provisions available generally to other U.S. public companies. We are in the process of implementing a global enterprise system. We are implementing a global enterprise resource planning system to replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. Such an implementation is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Should the system not be implemented successfully and within budget, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could disrupt and might adversely affect our operations and results of operations, including our ability to report accurate and timely financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. -25- 