ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this annual report, you should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any such risks materialize, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. In such an instance, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Our construction project to expand our Hunter, Texas cement plant or future capital expenditures for expansion of our business may not strengthen our competitive position. In order to strengthen our competitive position, in recent years we have made significant capital expenditures to expand our facilities. In October 2007 we commenced a project to expand our cement plant in Hunter, Texas. We are constructing approximately 1.4 million tons of advanced dry process annual cement production capacity. The 900,000 tons of existing production will remain in operation. We expect to begin the startup and commissioning process in the winter of fiscal year 2010. The projected cost of the plant expansion is between $325 million and $350 million, excluding capitalized interest related to the project. We could experience construction delays or cost overruns for many reasons, including inclement weather, unavailability of materials or equipment, unanticipated site conditions and unanticipated problems during construction, startup and commissioning. We have all material environmental authorizations necessary for the construction of the plant. As we finalize the construction plans during the course of construction, we expect that amendments to our existing permits will be required to accommodate any changes we make to the original construction plans. Failure to timely receive any such permits, or permit amendments, could delay construction and startup. Our construction costs would also increase if we incur unanticipated costs to comply with any permit requirements that may be imposed as conditions to obtaining such permits or amendments. We cannot assure you that market conditions will be favorable, that the actual cost of the plant expansion will not exceed our cost projections or that additional financing, if required, will be available on acceptable terms. We cannot assure you that the new plant, when completed, will operate in accordance with its design specifications. If it does not, we could incur additional costs or production delays while problems are corrected. As we do not have control over the cost or the outcome of these factors, we cannot assure you that the planned expansion will occur on schedule, within budget or at all. As a result of these or other unanticipated factors, the Hunter project or any other future expansionary capital expenditures may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated. If certain of the events described above occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is sensitive to economic cycles within the public, residential and non-residential construction segments as well as seasonality and inclement weather conditions. Some of our competitors may cope better with adverse economic and market conditions than we would. The cement, aggregate and concrete markets are generally regional because transportation costs are high relative to the value of the product. Demand for our products is derived primarily from public (infrastructure), residential and non-residential construction activity in our specific regional markets. Construction activity in each of these markets is cyclical and is influenced by prevailing economic conditions in these markets, including availability of public funds, interest rate levels, inflation, consumer spending habits and employment. These factors may fluctuate more widely in regional markets than in the United States as a whole. As a result, even though we sell in more than one region, our operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Any significant decline in the level of general construction activity in our markets could negatively affect our operating results. Because we sell most of our cement in Texas and southern California, and because cement sales contribute more to our profitability than any other product line, a significant decline in cement demand or prices in Texas or southern California could negatively impact our profitability. The regional nature of our business also makes us vulnerable to changes in regional weather and its impact on the regional construction industry. Our operating profit is generally lower in our fiscal quarter ending on the 11 Table of Contents last day of February than it is in our other three fiscal quarters because of the impact of winter weather on construction activity. Although southern California and Texas are regions characterized by longer periods of favorable weather, extended periods of inclement weather can reduce construction activity at any time of the year. Our product prices are subject to material changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, which can be affected by economic and other market conditions beyond our control. We may face price or volume declines in the future. Due to the high fixed cost nature of our business, our operating results may be significantly affected by relatively small changes in production volumes. Moreover, our industry is characterized by low backlogs, which means that our results of operations may be promptly affected by short-term economic fluctuations. In particular, our customers are engaged in a substantial amount of construction in which government funding is a component and, as a result, can be subject to government budget constraints and political shifts resulting in funding reallocation. For example, funds distributed under multi-year federal highway legislation historically comprised a majority of California and Texas’ public works spending. Any significant decrease in public works spending in either state could negatively affect our operating results. The level of residential and non-residential construction and of cement demand has declined significantly in California since its historic high in 2005. Residential construction has declined to a lesser degree in Texas, but through fiscal year 2008 it has not had a significant impact on total cement demand. A sustained period of declining construction activity in our markets could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources or have less financial leverage than we do. As a result, these competitors may cope better with any downward pricing pressure and adverse economic or market conditions than we would. The availability and pricing of energy could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent upon energy sources, including electricity and fossil fuels. Prices for energy are subject to market forces largely beyond our control. We have generally not entered into any long-term contracts to satisfy our fuel and electricity needs, with the exception of coal which we purchase from specific mines pursuant to contracts that expire on December 31, 2008 and May 31, 2009. We expect to enter into new long term coal contracts that will significantly increase the price of coal, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate new contracts on terms that are acceptable to us. Despite any long-term coal contracts we may enter into, we expect our coal supplies could be interrupted in the event of rail service disruptions or mine failures. If we are unable to meet our requirements for fuel and electricity, we may experience interruptions in our production. In the last year we have experienced significant increases in our energy costs. Further price increases that we are unable to pass through in price increases for our products, or disruption of the uninterrupted supply of fuel and electricity, could adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur substantial expenditures to comply with environmental, health and safety laws. The enforcement of such laws may result in liability for civil or criminal fines or penalties or curtailment or suspension of our operations. We may become liable for environmental injury to persons or property. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits as described more fully under the caption “Environmental Matters” in Item 1, Business. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Mining Safety and Health Administration and various state agencies are charged with enforcing these laws, regulations and permits. These agencies can impose substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as curtail or suspend our operations, for violations and non-compliance. Moreover, private parties may bring actions against us for injuries to persons and damages to property allegedly caused by our operations. We intend to comply with these laws, regulations and permits. However, from time to time we receive claims from federal and state regulatory agencies asserting that we are or may be in violation of certain of these laws, regulations and permits, or from 12 Table of Contents private parties alleging that our operations have injured them or their property. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 1, Business, for a description of certain claims. If violations of law, injury to persons, damage to property or contamination of the environment has been or is caused by the conduct of our business or hazardous substances or wastes used, generated or disposed of by us, we may be liable for such violations, injuries and damages and be required to pay the cost of investigation and remediation of such contamination. The amount of such liability could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in federal or state laws, regulations or permits or discovery of currently unknown conditions could increase our cost of compliance, require additional capital expenditures, interrupt production or hinder our ability to expand or build new production facilities. For example, California has adopted the “California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006”, which will result in the regulation of the emission of carbon dioxide, a natural by-product of the cement manufacturing process. The California Air Resources Board has not yet adopted regulations defining how the new law may apply to us. Also, a recent U.S. Supreme Court decision or any of a number of bills that have been introduced in the current session of the U. S. Congress may result in the federal regulation of the emission of greenhouse gases. We cannot yet predict the nature of this regulation, but any laws or regulations that impose limits on our carbon dioxide emissions, the raw materials or fuel we use or our production volumes, or that impose carbon taxes, could have a significant impact on the cement manufacturing industry and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Future litigation could affect our profitability. The nature of our business exposes us to various litigation matters including product liability claims, employment matters, environmental matters, regulatory and administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, tort claims and contract disputes. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 1, Business, for a description of certain legal proceedings. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of existing or future litigation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties and shortcomings in the estimation process. Future litigation costs, settlements or judgments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Due to the high fixed cost nature of our business, interruptions in our production capabilities may cause our productivity and results of operations to decline significantly during the affected period. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our kilns and finishing mills. This equipment, on occasion, may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or damage during accidents. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. In addition, our operations in California are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, for which we maintain only a limited amount of earthquake insurance and, therefore, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk. We also have one to two-week scheduled outages once a year to refurbish our cement production facilities. Any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely heavily on third-party truck and rail transportation, which is subject to delays and rate fluctuations. We rely heavily on third-party truck and rail transportation to ship our products to customers and coal, our primary fuel, to our plants. Rail and trucking operations are subject to capacity constraints, high fuel costs and various hazards, including extreme weather conditions and slowdowns due to labor strikes and other work stoppages. If there are material changes in the availability or cost of rail or trucking services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products at a reasonable cost, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses or increases in our costs, either of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Implementation of our growth strategy has certain risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire other reserves or operations, enter into joint ventures or form strategic alliances that we believe will expand or complement our existing business. If any of these transactions occur, they will likely involve some or all of the following risks: • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of resources and management’s time and attention; • the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the difficulty of managing the operations of a larger company; • the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; • the risk of contractual or operational liability to joint venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation; • the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having greater financial resources than we have; and • the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing business. Pursuing our growth strategy may be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms or at all. Future transactions may not improve the competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and could reduce sales or profit margins, and, therefore, earnings if they are not successful. Our business could suffer if cement imports from Mexico or other countries significantly increase or are sold in the U.S. in violation of U.S. fair trade laws. In 1989 and 1990, groups of domestic cement producers, including us, filed antidumping petitions that resulted in the imposition of significant antidumping import duties on imports of gray portland cement and clinker from Mexico and Japan. On March 6, 2006, the governments of the U.S. and Mexico signed the U.S.-Mexico Agreement on Cement, which settled the 16-year dispute over the U.S. antidumping duty order on imports from Mexico. During the three-year term of the agreement, Mexican cement producers are allowed to import into the United States up to 3.0 million metric tons of cement and clinker annually, which will be subject to a reduced import duty of $3.00 per ton. Maximum import levels will be adjusted annually within certain limits to reflect changes in consumption, and will be allowed to increase to higher levels, if needed, to respond to natural disasters such as hurricanes. The antidumping order will be terminated in 2009 if Mexican producers have complied with the agreement. Although we expect the antidumping order against cement and clinker from Japan to remain in effect until at least 2011, beginning in 2009 unlimited imports from Mexico may enter the U.S. without the imposition of any import duties. In addition, as has always been the case, independently owned cement operators can construct new import facilities and begin to purchase cement from other countries, such as those in Asia, which could compete with domestic producers. An influx of cement or clinker products from countries not subject to antidumping orders, or sales of imported cement or clinker in violation of U.S. fair trade laws, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, fluctuations in the value of the dollar can be expected to affect our business. A strong U.S. dollar makes imported cement less expensive, resulting in more imports into the United States by foreign 14 Table of Contents competitors, while a weak U.S. dollar has the opposite effect. If the dollar strengthens appreciably against other world currencies, it will encourage additional imports of cement, which could negatively affect our results of operations. The financing agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt. Our financing agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These agreements require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios, including a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. Restrictions contained in these financing agreements also limit or prohibit our ability and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: • pay dividends to our stockholders; • make certain investments and capital expenditures; • incur additional debt or sell preferred stock; • create liens; • restrict dividend payments or other payments from subsidiaries to us; • engage in consolidations and mergers or sell or transfer assets; • engage in transactions with our affiliates; and • sell stock in our subsidiaries. Various risks and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain financial tests and ratios. If we cannot comply with the financial covenants in our senior credit facilities, we may not be able to borrow under our revolving credit facility. In addition, failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they made to supply us with further funds. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by our financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments of our financing agreements, if necessary, on acceptable terms or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 