ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this annual report, you should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any such risks materialize, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. In such an instance, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Our business is sensitive to economic cycles within the public, residential and non-residential construction segments as well as seasonality and inclement weather conditions. Some of our competitors may cope better than we can with adverse economic and market conditions. The cement, aggregate and concrete markets are generally regional because transportation costs are high relative to the value of the product. Demand for our products is derived primarily from public (infrastructure), residential and non-residential construction activity in our specific regional markets. Construction activity in each of these markets is cyclical and is influenced by prevailing economic conditions in these markets. During fiscal year 2009 and into fiscal year 2010, the economy in all of our operating regions was in recession. Declining home values, investor losses on mortgage related securities, tight credit conditions, state budget shortfalls and significant levels of unemployment have led to declines in all segments of construction activity in our markets. Demand for our products has fallen, and our results of operations have been negatively impacted. If these conditions continue or worsen, we could incur significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Economic factors may fluctuate more widely in regional markets than in the United States as a whole. As a result, even though we sell in more than one region, our operating results are subject to significant fluctuation from region to region. Because we sell most of our cement in Texas and southern California, and because cement sales have historically contributed more to our profitability than any other product line, a significant further decline in cement demand or prices in Texas or southern California could materially and negatively impact our profitability. Our product prices are subject to material changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, which can be affected by economic and other market conditions beyond our control. In the last year we 10 Table of Contents have experienced both volume and price declines in the Texas and California cement markets and the Texas aggregates and ready mix markets. We may face more price or volume declines in the future. Due to the high fixed cost nature of our business, our operating results may be significantly affected by relatively small changes in production volumes. Moreover, our industry is characterized by low backlogs, which means that our results of operations may be promptly affected by short term economic fluctuations. Our customers are engaged in a substantial amount of construction in which government funding is a component and, as a result, can be subject to government budget constraints and political shifts resulting in funding reallocation. In February 2009, President Obama signed into law an economic stimulus plan, which provides billions of dollars in new funding for infrastructure construction projects. We expect these funds will have a positive impact on demand for our products for a period of time, but the length and depth of that demand cannot be predicted. The current multi-year federal highway funding legislation expired on September 30, 2009, but was extended by an authorization bill through the end of calendar year 2010. Funding provided by this legislation has historically comprised a majority of California and Texas’ public works spending. Failure to pass new long-term federal highway funding legislation upon expiration of the current extension period, or a significant decrease in public works spending in either state for any reason, including the recent budget crisis in the state of California, could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. The regional nature of our business also makes us vulnerable to changes in regional weather and its impact on the regional construction industry. Our operating profit is generally lower in our fiscal quarter ending on the last day of February than it is in our other three fiscal quarters because of the impact of winter weather on construction activity. Although southern California and Texas are regions characterized by longer periods of favorable weather, extended periods of inclement weather can reduce construction activity at any time of the year. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources or less financial leverage than we do. As a result, these competitors may cope better than we can with adverse economic or market conditions and any downward pressure on prices or volumes. The availability and pricing of energy could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent upon energy sources, including electricity and fossil fuels. Prices for energy are subject to market forces largely beyond our control. We have generally not entered into any long-term contracts to satisfy our fuel and electricity needs, with the exception of coal which we purchase from specific mines pursuant to contracts that expire on December 31, 2011 and May 31, 2014. Despite our long-term coal contracts, we expect our coal supplies could be interrupted in the event of rail service disruptions or mine failures. If we are unable to meet our requirements for fuel and electricity, we may experience interruptions in our production. Price increases that we are unable to pass through in the form of price increases for our products, or disruption of the uninterrupted supply of fuel and electricity, could adversely affect our results of operations. The enforcement of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may result in liability for civil or criminal fines or penalties or curtailment or suspension of our operations. We may become liable for environmental injury to persons or property. We may incur substantial expenditures to comply with changes in such laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits as described more fully under the caption “Environmental Matters” in Item 1, Business. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Mining Safety and Health Administration and various state agencies are charged with enforcing these laws, regulations and permits. These agencies can impose substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as curtail or suspend our operations, for violations and non-compliance. Moreover, private parties may bring civil actions against us for injuries to persons and damages to property allegedly caused by our operations. We intend to comply with these laws, regulations and permits. However, from time to time we receive claims from federal and state regulatory agencies asserting that we are or may be in violation of certain of these laws, regulations and permits, or from private parties alleging that our operations have injured them or their property. See “Legal Proceedings” in 11 Table of Contents Item 1, Business, for a description of certain claims. If violations of law, injury to persons, damage to property or contamination of the environment has been or is caused by the conduct of our business or hazardous substances or wastes used, generated or disposed of by us, we may be liable for such violations, injuries and damages and be required to pay the cost of investigation and remediation of such contamination. The amount of such liability could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in federal or state laws, regulations or permits or discovery of currently unknown conditions could increase our cost of compliance, require additional capital expenditures, reduce or shut down production or hinder our ability to expand or build new production facilities. See “Environmental” in Item 1, Business, for a description of certain existing or proposed laws and regulations affecting our industry. Although we cannot yet predict the final nature of these laws and regulations, each one could have a significant impact on the cement manufacturing industry and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our construction project to expand our Hunter, Texas cement plant has been delayed. We expect to resume construction by November 2010. The capital expenditures that we have already incurred for construction of the Hunter plant, and future capital expenditures for expansion of our business may not strengthen our competitive position. In order to strengthen our competitive position, in recent years we have made significant capital expenditures to expand our facilities. In October 2007 we commenced construction on a project to expand our Hunter, Texas cement plant by approximately 1.4 million tons of advanced dry process annual cement production capacity. In May 2009 we temporarily halted construction on the project because we believed that economic and market conditions made it unlikely that current cement demand levels in Texas would permit the new kiln to operate profitably if the project was completed as originally scheduled. We expect to resume construction by November 2010. We have not entered into a new construction contract to complete the construction, so no schedule for completion has yet been determined. As of May 31, 2010, we had incurred $293.9 million, excluding capitalized interest of $16.3 million related to the project, of which $289.4 million had been expended. Until we determine the period over which the construction will occur, we cannot accurately estimate the cost of completing the project. Our Hunter plant expansion, when construction resumes, and future expansion projects could experience construction delays or cost overruns for many reasons, including inclement weather, unavailability of materials or equipment, unanticipated site conditions and unanticipated problems in obtaining required permits during construction, startup and commissioning. We currently have all material environmental authorizations necessary for the Hunter plant expansion. We cannot assure you that market conditions will be favorable, that the actual cost of the plant expansion will not exceed our cost projections or that additional financing, if required, will be available on acceptable terms. We cannot assure you that our expanded Hunter plant or any new plant, when completed, will operate in accordance with its design specifications. If it does not, we could incur additional costs or production delays while problems are corrected. As we do not have control over the cost or the outcome of these factors, we cannot assure you that any planned expansion will occur on schedule or within budget. As a result of these or other unanticipated factors, the Hunter project or any other future expansionary capital expenditures may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated. If certain of the events described above occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Future litigation could affect our profitability. The nature of our business exposes us to various litigation matters. These matters may include claims by private parties or governmental entities seeking compensatory and punitive damages, environmental clean up costs, penalties, injunctive relief or other types of recovery. The types of claims to which we may be subject include: • Product liability claims that our products have caused buildings, roadways, oil wells, or other structures to fail or not comply with specifications. 12 Table of Contents • Contract claims that we have breached a legally enforceable agreement in a manner that has damaged one or more other parties. • Employment claims that we violated anti-discrimination, wage and hour, fair labor standards or other employment related laws, regulations or contracts. • Claims by regulatory or administrative bodies that we have violated specified laws, regulations or permit conditions. • Environmental claims that we have exposed individuals to or contaminated property with toxic or hazardous substances. • Other tort claims that our actions or omissions caused damage to persons or property. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 1, Business, for a description of certain legal proceedings. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of existing or future litigation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties and shortcomings in the estimation process. Future litigation costs, settlements or judgments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Due to the high fixed cost nature of our business, interruptions in our production capabilities may cause our productivity and results of operations to decline significantly during the affected period. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our kilns and finishing mills. This equipment, on occasion, may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or damage during accidents. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. In addition, our operations in California are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, for which we maintain only a limited amount of earthquake insurance and, therefore, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk. We also have one to two-week scheduled outages at least once a year to refurbish our cement production facilities. Any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely heavily on third-party truck and rail transportation, which is subject to delays and rate fluctuations. We rely heavily on third-party truck and rail transportation to ship our products to customers and coal, our primary fuel, to our plants. Rail and trucking operations are subject to capacity constraints, high fuel costs and various hazards, including extreme weather conditions and slowdowns due to labor strikes and other work stoppages. If there are material changes in the availability or cost of rail or trucking services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products or coal at a reasonable cost, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses or increases in our costs, either of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Implementation of our growth strategy has certain risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire other reserves or operations, enter into joint ventures or form strategic alliances that we believe will expand or complement our existing business. If any of these transactions occur, they will likely involve some or all of the following risks: • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of resources and management’s time and attention; 13 Table of Contents • the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the difficulty of managing the operations of a larger company; • the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; • the risk of contractual or operational liability to joint venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation; • the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having greater financial resources than we have; and • the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing business. Pursuing our growth strategy may be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms or at all. Future transactions may not improve the competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and could reduce sales or profit margins, and, therefore, our results of operations if they are not successful. Our business could suffer if cement imports from other countries significantly increase or are sold in the U.S. in violation of U.S. fair trade laws. The cement industry has in the past obtained antidumping orders imposing duties on imports of cement and clinker from other countries that violated U.S. fair trade laws. Currently, an antidumping order against cement and clinker from Japan is expected to remain in effect until at least 2011. As has always been the case, cement operators with import facilities can purchase cement from other countries, such as those in Latin America and Asia, which could compete with domestic producers. In addition, if currently proposed environmental regulations increase the costs of domestic producers compared to foreign producers that are not subject to similar regulations, imported cement could achieve a significant cost advantage over domestically produced cement. An influx of cement or clinker products from countries not subject to antidumping orders, or sales of imported cement or clinker in violation of U.S. fair trade laws, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, fluctuations in the value of the dollar could affect our business. A strong U.S. dollar makes imported cement less expensive, resulting in more imports into the United States by foreign competitors, while a weak U.S. dollar has the opposite effect. If the dollar strengthens appreciably against other world currencies, it will encourage additional imports of cement, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We have a substantial amount of debt which will require a significant amount of cash to service and which could have important consequences for us. Our ability to generate cash from operations or borrowing depends on many factors beyond our control. Our debt could have important consequences for us. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our other obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the cement, aggregate and concrete industry or the markets in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or debt with less restrictive terms; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend largely upon the availability of financing and our future operating performance. In fiscal year 2010 we had a net loss of $38.9 million. Our future operating performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future if needed to make payments on our debt will depend on our satisfaction of the covenants in our senior secured credit facility and our other current and future debt agreements. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service requirements, we may have to renegotiate the terms of our debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to meet our debt service requirements or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as: • sales of certain assets to meet our debt service obligations; • sales of equity; and • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. Our debt agreements may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to do any of these things. The financing agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt and foreclosure on collateral. Our financing agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. Restrictions contained in these financing agreements also limit or prohibit our ability and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: • pay dividends to our stockholders; • make certain investments and capital expenditures; • incur additional debt or sell preferred stock; • create liens; • restrict dividend payments or other payments from subsidiaries to us; • engage in consolidations and mergers or sell or transfer assets; • engage in transactions with our affiliates; and • sell stock in our subsidiaries. We are not required to maintain any financial ratios or covenants unless an event of default occurs or the unused portion of our borrowing base under our senior secured credit facility is less than $40 million, in which case we must comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0. At May 31, 2010 we were in compliance with our loan covenants. Various risks and events beyond our control could in the future affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain financial tests and ratios. If we cannot comply with the fixed charge coverage ratio in our senior secured credit facility and the unused portion of our borrowing base falls below $40 million, we may not be able to borrow under this facility. At May 31, 2010, our fixed charge coverage ratio was .7 to 1.0. Given this ratio, we may use only $117.7 million of the borrowing base as of such date. Because $28.5 million of the borrowing base was used to support letters of credit, the maximum amount we could borrow as of May 31, 2010 was $89.2 million. In addition, failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit 15 Table of Contents lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, terminate any commitments they made to supply us with further funds and foreclose on collateral. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by our financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments of our financing agreements, if necessary, on acceptable terms or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 