ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this annual report, you should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any such risks materialize, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our securities to decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. The availability and pricing of energy could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent upon energy sources, including electricity and fossil fuels, in our manufacturing and product delivery processes. We have generally not entered into any long-term contracts to satisfy our fuel and electricity needs, with the exception of some of our coal needs, which we obtain from specific mines pursuant to contracts that expire on December 31, 2016. Despite our long-term coal contracts, we expect our coal supplies could be interrupted in the event of rail service disruptions or mining difficulties. If we are unable to meet our requirements for fuel and electricity, we may experience interruptions in our production. The cost of energy is one of our largest expenses. Prices for energy are subject to market forces largely beyond our control and can be quite volatile. Price increases that we are unable to pass through in the form of price increases for our products, or disruption of the uninterrupted supply of fuel and electricity, could adversely affect us. Unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our kilns and finishing mills. This equipment, on occasion, may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or - 9 - Table of Contents damage during accidents. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our operations in California are also susceptible to damage from earthquakes, for which we maintain only a limited amount of earthquake insurance and, therefore, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk. We also have one to two-week scheduled outages at least once a year to refurbish our cement production facilities. Any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time. Third-party truck and rail transportation is subject to delays and rate fluctuations. We rely heavily on third-party truck and rail transportation to ship our products to customers and coal to our plants. Rail and trucking operations are subject to capacity constraints, high fuel costs and various hazards, including extreme weather conditions and slowdowns due to labor strikes and other work stoppages. In Texas, we compete for third party trucking services with oil and gas well operators, which can significantly constrain the availability of those services to us. If there are material changes in the availability or cost of rail or trucking services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products or coal at a reasonable cost, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses or increases in our costs. Our business is seasonal and inclement weather can affect our quarterly results. Our operating profit is generally lower in our fiscal third quarter ending on the last day of February than it is in our other three fiscal quarters because of the impact of winter weather on construction activity. Although southern California and Texas are regions characterized by longer periods of favorable weather than in many parts of the U.S., extended periods of inclement weather in one of our market regions can reduce construction activity at any time of the year and negatively affect our financial results in the periods in which the inclement weather occurs. Our business is cyclical and regional in nature. Some of our competitors may cope better than we can with adverse economic and market conditions. Demand for our products is derived primarily from public (infrastructure), residential and non-residential construction activity in our regional markets in Texas and southern California. Construction activity in each of these markets is cyclical due to its sensitivity to economic conditions in these markets. During the recent economic recession, we experienced significant declines in both sales volumes and prices for our products in all of our market areas. Due to the high fixed-cost nature of our business, our profitability can be significantly and negatively affected by declining volumes, and decreasing prices exacerbate the affect. As a result we have reported losses in 10 of our last 12 quarters. During fiscal year 2012, while the general economy in our market areas continued its slow recovery from the recent recession, construction activity remained at low levels compared to activity preceding the recession. Until construction activity in our market areas improves significantly, we expect our results of operations will continue to be negatively impacted by these conditions. The cement, aggregate and concrete markets are generally regional because transportation costs are high relative to the value of the product. Economic factors may fluctuate more widely in regional markets than in the United States as a whole. As a result, our operating results are subject to significant fluctuation from one region to another. Because we sell most of our cement in Texas and southern California, and because cement sales have historically contributed more to our profitability than any other product line, a significant further decline in cement demand or prices in Texas or southern California could have a further negative impact on us. Some of our competitors are larger and more profitable than we are, and have greater financial resources or less financial leverage than we do. As a result, these competitors may cope better than we can with adverse economic or market conditions that may cause downward pressure on prices or volumes or upward pressure on costs. They may have an advantage over us in negotiating advantageous terms with vendors and customers, attracting and retaining key employees or in other ways. - 10 - Table of Contents Our business is sensitive to governmental budget constraints. Our customers engage in a substantial amount of construction in which government funding is an important component. The level of public construction activity is subject to government budget constraints and political shifts, which can result in funding reductions or reallocations. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided billions of dollars in funding for infrastructure construction projects. A majority of those funds have been spent, and we do not expect the remaining funds to significantly increase the demand for our products. Federal funding has historically comprised a majority of California and Texas’ public works spending. Federal highway funding has typically been provided through multi-year highway funding authorization bills, but the last such legislation expired on September 30, 2009. Federal funding was extended by a series of short-term extensions until July 2012 when a new transportation funding authorization was signed by the President. The new bill provides approximately $118 billion of funding for surface transportation programs for the 27 month period ending September 30, 2014. The states of Texas and California continue to deal with tight state budgets, which is likely to negatively impact state funding for public works projects. A significant decrease in public works spending in either Texas or California for any reason could have an adverse impact on us. Climate change could impact our business and financial results in ways that cannot be accurately predicted. Except for the potential impact on us of legal or regulatory limits on emissions of greenhouse gases, which are discussed elsewhere in this report, we do not expect the effects of climate change to have a significant impact on us in the near term. Over the longer term, such effects are highly uncertain. On one hand, we expect that the impact of future climate change laws and regulations on energy producers and other vendors could increase our energy and other costs. Changes in rainfall and other weather patterns could result in localized shortages of water, a critical resource in our manufacturing processes. Since the process of manufacturing cement produces carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, researchers could develop alternative manufacturing processes or products that produce reduced or no greenhouse gases. If such processes or products were successful in the marketplace, the impact on us could be either positive or negative, depending on whether we could economically use the process or produce the product. On the other hand, it is possible that demand for our products could increase as certain geographic areas or industries cope with other impacts of climate change. All of these potential impacts are speculative, however, and the ultimate effects on our business and financial results cannot be accurately predicted. The enforcement of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may result in liability for civil or criminal fines or penalties or curtailment or suspension of our operations. We may become liable for environmental injury to persons or property. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits as described more fully under the caption “Environmental Matters” in Item 1, Business. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Mining Safety and Health Administration and various state agencies are charged with enforcing these laws, regulations and permits. These agencies can impose substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as curtail or suspend our operations, for violations and non-compliance. Moreover, private parties may bring civil actions against us for injuries to persons and damages to property allegedly caused by our products or operations. We intend to comply with these laws, regulations and permits. However, from time to time we receive claims from federal and state regulatory agencies asserting that we are or may be in violation of certain of these laws, regulations and permits, or from private parties alleging that our products or operations have injured them or their property. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 1, Business, for a description of certain claims. If violations of law, injury to persons, damage to property or contamination of the environment has been or is caused by the conduct of our business or hazardous substances or wastes used, generated or disposed of by us, we may be liable for such violations, injuries and damages and be required to pay the cost of investigation and remediation of such contamination. - 11 - Table of Contents Changes in federal or state laws, regulations or permits or discovery of currently unknown conditions could increase our cost of compliance, require additional capital expenditures, reduce or shut down production or hinder our ability to expand or build new production facilities. Although we cannot yet predict the final nature of these laws and regulations, each one could have a significant negative impact on the cement manufacturing industry and us. California Climate Change Regulations. In 2006, California adopted the “California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006”, which requires the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to implement rules designed to achieve a statewide reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in California to 1990 levels by 2020. In December 2010, CARB adopted new rules that establish a market-based cap-and-trade program scheduled to begin on January 1, 2013. The new rules will apply to our cement plant in Oro Grande, California and ultimately to our lightweight aggregate plant in Frazier Park, California. The new rules establish a statewide cap on the level of GHG emissions from covered industries for each year from 2013 to 2020. The cap will decline approximately 2% to 3% per year. Individual facilities such as ours will not be assigned a specific limit on GHG emissions. Instead, we will be required to surrender allowances (each covering the equivalent of one ton of carbon dioxide) equal to our total GHG emissions. CARB will allocate allowances equal to the declining cap in a manner prescribed by the rules. To provide a gradual transition, CARB will provide significant free allowances to cement plants because they are energy intensive and trade exposed businesses. If our emissions exceed the number of allowances we receive, we may purchase additional allowances in the open market, buy them at a regular quarterly auction conducted by CARB or purchase them from a state price containment reserve. At this time market prices of allowances have not been well established, but the rules establish a minimum price of $10 per ton for 2013, and actual prices will depend on market conditions. Our allocation of free allowances will be based on our annual GHG intensity (i.e., our GHG emissions per unit of production) compared to the California cement sector intensity benchmark determined by CARB. Our level of free allowances will be reduced over time with the implementation of a cap adjustment factor intended to gradually reduce the statewide cap over time. We expect to incur additional costs because of these regulations. However, the interpretation of many aspects of the rules is still uncertain. It is too early in the process to determine the total number of allowances that we may be required to purchase. We also expect that our energy costs will increase due to the impact of these regulations on the electric utility industry. In addition, the California cement industry is discussing a number of issues with CARB, including a California border adjustment mechanism to help create a level playing field with imported cement. As a result of these and other uncertainties, at this time we cannot predict the ultimate cost or effect of the rules on our business. Federal Climate Change Regulations. The U.S. Supreme Court decision in Massachusetts v. EPA relating to regulation of GHG emissions from automobiles spurred the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to issue in December 2009 a finding that certain GHGs such as carbon dioxide contribute to air pollution that may endanger public health or welfare. The endangerment finding does not include any proposed regulations. Although both the Obama Administration and the Administrator of the EPA indicated their preference for comprehensive federal legislation regulating the emission of GHGs, no such legislation has been adopted nor does it appear likely that any will be adopted in the near term. In the absence of federal legislation, the EPA issued a final rule in May 2010 that requires us to incorporate best available control technology in any new cement plant that we propose to build and in our existing cement plants when we propose to modify them in a manner that would increase GHG emissions (in our case, basically carbon dioxide emissions) by more than 75,000 tons per year. This rule and the endangerment finding were challenged in court by many public and private parties, but in June 2012 the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Columbia upheld the endangerment finding and the related GHG rules. Several legislative attempts have been made in the U.S. Congress to strip or limit the EPA’s authority to regulate GHGs, but none of these attempts appear likely to succeed. - 12 - Table of Contents No technologies or methods of operation for reducing or capturing GHGs such as carbon dioxide have been proven successful in large scale applications other than improvements in fuel efficiency. We do not currently know what the EPA will require as best available control technology for our cement plants or what conditions it will require to be added to any of our operating permits in the event we propose to modify a plant in a way that would trigger the new rules. In addition, we cannot predict whether the court ruling upholding the GHG rules will be appealed, and if it is, the ultimate outcome of the appeal. We also cannot predict the outcome of the policy debates in the U.S. Congress regarding the regulation of GHGs. Therefore, at this time, it is impossible to predict what the ultimate cost or effect of the EPA’s GHG rules will be on our business. Regional Climate Change Initiatives. Various states have banded together in three initiatives to develop regional strategies to address climate change. Certain western states, including California, and Canadian provinces have formed the Western Climate Initiative. Some Midwestern states and a Canadian province are members of the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord. Several northeastern and mid-Atlantic states have joined the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. These initiatives call for establishing goals for reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the member states and designing market-based mechanisms to help achieve these reduction goals. California’s climate change laws and regulations are designed to coordinate with the Western Climate Initiative. Other states may join these initiatives or form additional initiatives or coalitions intended to regulate the emission of GHGs. Federal Air Emission Regulations. In August 2010, the EPA issued final rules that dramatically reduced the permitted emissions of mercury, total hydrocarbons, particulate matter and hydrochloric acid from cement plants. The rules were originally scheduled to take full effect in September 2013. The Portland Cement Association and several cement manufacturers, including us, petitioned the EPA to reconsider the rules and to delay the effective date of the rules, and the same parties also challenged the validity of the rules in court. The EPA agreed to reconsider certain aspects of the rules, but not the limits on emissions. In December 2011 the court ruled that the EPA acted arbitrarily in certain respects and remanded the rule for further action by the EPA. In response, in July 2012 the EPA is expected to propose a revised rule that, among other things, will ease the emission limit on particulate matter and extend the effective date for compliance to September 2015. The proposed revised rule is expected to become final in December 2012. We cannot guarantee that the rule will become final then, or that the proposed rule will become final without further changes. We have conducted tests to analyze the current level of compliance of our cement plants with the standards in the proposed revised rule. Based on information currently available to us, we believe that our plant in Oro Grande, California will not meet the mercury emission standard and it may not meet the hydrochloric acid standard, The existing kiln at our plant in Hunter, Texas will not meet the particulate matter standard. We expect that the new kiln that is under construction at the Hunter plant, when it is completed, will meet the particulate matter and other standards. We cannot assure you that these are the only cases in which one of our plants will not meet the new standards when a final rule is adopted. For the Oro Grande plant, we have identified mercury monitoring and control equipment that we believe will comply with the currently proposed mercury standard, and equipment is being tested that we believe may comply with the proposed hydrochloric acid standard. We expect the existing kiln at the Hunter plant will require a new bag house to bring it into compliance with the new particulate matter standard. We currently believe the cost for installing monitoring and control equipment at both plants will be in the range of $30 million to $35 million. At this time, however, we cannot assure you that new equipment will be available and installed before the new standards take effect, or that such equipment, when installed, will reduce emissions sufficiently to meet the new standards. Future litigation could affect our profitability. The nature of our business exposes us to various litigation matters. These matters may include claims by private parties or governmental entities seeking compensatory and punitive damages, environmental clean up costs, penalties, injunctive relief or other types of recovery. The types of claims to which we may be subject include: • Product liability claims that our products have caused buildings, roadways, oil wells, or other structures to fail or not comply with specifications. - 13 - Table of Contents • Contract claims that we have breached a legally enforceable agreement in a manner that has damaged one or more other parties. • Employment claims that we violated anti-discrimination, wage and hour, fair labor standards or other employment related laws, regulations or contracts. • Claims by regulatory or administrative bodies that we have violated specified laws, regulations or permit conditions. • Environmental claims that we have exposed individuals to or contaminated property with toxic or hazardous substances. • Other tort claims that our actions or omissions caused damage to persons or property. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 1, Business, for a description of certain legal proceedings. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of existing or future litigation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties and shortcomings in the estimation process. Future litigation costs, settlements or judgments could adversely affect us. The capital expenditures that we have already incurred for expansion of our Hunter, Texas cement plant, and future capital expenditures for expansion of our business may not strengthen our competitive position. In order to strengthen our competitive position, in recent years we have made significant capital expenditures to expand our facilities. During October 2007, we commenced construction on a project to expand our Hunter, Texas cement plant. In May 2009 we temporarily halted construction on the project because we believed that economic and market conditions made it unlikely that cement demand levels in Texas at that time would permit the new kiln to operate profitably if the project was completed as originally scheduled. We resumed construction in October 2010 and expect to begin commissioning in the fall of 2012. The total capital cost of the project is expected to be between $365 million and $375 million, excluding capitalized interest. As of May 31, 2012, we have incurred approximately $353.1 million, excluding capitalized interest of approximately $68.7 million related to the project, of which $344.4 million has been paid. Our Hunter plant expansion and future expansion projects could experience construction delays or cost overruns for many reasons, including inclement weather, unavailability of materials or equipment, unanticipated site conditions and unanticipated problems in obtaining required permits during construction, startup and commissioning. We currently have all material environmental authorizations necessary for the Hunter plant expansion. We cannot assure you that market conditions will be favorable, that the actual cost of the plant expansion will not exceed our cost projections or that additional financing, if required, will be available on acceptable terms. We cannot assure you that our expanded Hunter plant or any new plant, when completed, will operate in accordance with its design specifications. If it does not, we could incur additional costs or production delays while problems are corrected. As we do not have control over the cost or the outcome of these factors, we cannot assure you that any planned expansion will occur on schedule or within budget. As a result of these or other unanticipated factors, the Hunter project or any other future expansionary capital expenditures may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated. Transactions we enter into to implement our business strategy involve risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire more reserves or operations, enter into joint ventures or form strategic alliances that we believe will expand or complement our existing business. If any of these transactions occur, they will likely involve some or all of the following risks: • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of resources and management’s time and attention; - 14 - Table of Contents • the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the difficulty of managing the operations of a larger company; • the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; • the risk of contractual or operational liability to joint venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation; • the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having greater financial resources than we have; and • the difficulty of integrating acquired operations and personnel into our existing business. Pursuing our growth strategy may be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms or at all. Future transactions may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated. They could reduce our sales or profit margins or increase our costs if they are not successful. We have a substantial amount of debt which will require a significant amount of cash to service and which could have important consequences for us. Our ability to generate cash from operations or borrowing depends on many factors beyond our control. Our debt could have important consequences for us. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our other obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the cement, aggregate and concrete industry or the markets in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or debt with less restrictive terms; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend largely upon the availability of financing and our future operating performance. In three out of the last four fiscal years we incurred a net loss. Our future operating performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future if needed to make payments on our debt will depend on our satisfaction of the covenants in our senior secured credit facility and our other current and future debt agreements. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service requirements, we may have to renegotiate the terms of our debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to meet our debt service requirements or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as: • sales of certain assets to meet our debt service obligations; • sales of equity; and • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. - 15 - Table of Contents Our debt agreements may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to do any of these things. The financing agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt and foreclosure on collateral. Our financing agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. Restrictions contained in these financing agreements also limit or prohibit our ability and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: • pay dividends to our stockholders; • make certain investments and capital expenditures; • incur additional debt or sell preferred stock; • create liens; • restrict dividend payments or other payments from subsidiaries to us; • engage in consolidations and mergers or sell or transfer assets; • engage in transactions with our affiliates; and • sell stock in our subsidiaries. We are not required to maintain any financial ratios or covenants unless an event of default occurs or the unused portion of our borrowing base under our senior secured credit facility is less than $25 million, in which case we must comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0. At May 31, 2012 we were in compliance with our loan covenants. Various risks and events beyond our control could in the future affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain financial tests and ratios. If we cannot comply with the fixed charge coverage ratio in our senior secured credit facility and the unused portion of our borrowing base falls below $25 million, we may not be able to borrow under this facility. At May 31, 2012, our fixed charge coverage ratio was (.39) to 1.0. Given this ratio, we may use only $122.8 million of the borrowing base as of such date. Because $26.9 million of the borrowing base was used to support letters of credit, the maximum amount we could borrow as of May 31, 2012 was $95.9 million. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, terminate any commitments they made to supply us with further funds and foreclose on collateral. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by our financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments of our financing agreements, if necessary, on acceptable terms or at all. Our business could suffer if cement imports from other countries significantly increase or are sold in the U.S. in violation of U.S. fair trade laws. The cement industry has in the past obtained antidumping orders imposing duties on imports of cement and clinker from other countries that violated U.S. fair trade laws. Currently, an antidumping order against cement and clinker from Japan will expire in 2016 unless it is extended by the Federal Trade Commission. As has always been the case, cement operators with import facilities can purchase cement from other countries, such as those in Latin America and Asia, which could compete with domestic producers. In addition, if currently proposed environmental regulations increase the costs of domestic producers compared to foreign producers that are not subject to similar regulations, imported cement could achieve a significant cost advantage over domestically produced cement. An influx of cement or clinker products from countries not subject to antidumping orders, or sales of imported cement or clinker in violation of U.S. fair trade laws, could adversely affect us. - 16 - Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 