Risk Factors In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this annual report, you should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Our project to expand and modernize our Oro Grande, California cement plant or future expansionary capital expenditures may not strengthen our competitive position. In order to strengthen our competitive position, in recent years we have made significant capital expenditures to expand our facilities. We recently announced that our board of directors has approved a project to expand and modernize our cement plant in Oro Grande, California. We expect the project will take at least two years to construct and will cost approximately $358 million. We could experience construction delays or cost overruns for many reasons, including inclement weather, unavailability of materials and unanticipated site conditions. Although we have all material environmental permits necessary for the construction of the plant, we cannot obtain operating permits until the construction is complete. In addition, as we finalize the construction plans during the course of construction, we expect that amendments to our existing construction permits will be required to accommodate any changes we make to the original construction plans. Failure to timely receive any such permits, or permit amendments, could delay construction. Our construction costs would also increase if we incur unanticipated costs to comply with any permit requirements that may be imposed as conditions to obtaining such permits. We cannot assure you that the new plant, when completed, will operate in accordance with its design specifications. If it does not, we could incur additional costs or production delays while problems are corrected and operating permits are obtained. As we do not have control over the cost or the outcome of these factors, we cannot assure you that the planned expansion will occur on schedule, within budget or at all. Also, the Oro Grande project or any other future expansionary capital expenditures may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is sensitive to economic cycles within the public, residential and non-residential construction segments as well as seasonality and inclement weather conditions. A significant percentage of sales of our products is attributable to the level of construction activity. Historically, construction spending and cement consumption have been cyclical. Demand for cement is derived primarily from public (infrastructure), residential and non-residential construction. Construction activity in each of these segments is cyclical and is influenced by prevailing economic conditions, including availability of public funds, interest rate levels, inflation, consumer spending habits and employment. In particular, our customers are engaged in a substantial amount of construction in which government funding is a component and, as a result, can be subject to government budget constraints and political shifts resulting in fund reallocation. For example, funds distributed under multi-year federal highway legislation historically comprised a majority of California and Texas’ public works spending. A significant decline in the level of construction activity in our markets would negatively affect our operating results. - 7 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The cement, aggregate and concrete markets are also generally regional because transportation costs are high relative to the value of the product. Regional markets in particular are highly cyclical. Sales in regional markets are dependent on regional demand, which is tied to local economic factors that may fluctuate more widely than those of the United States as a whole. As a result, even though we sell in more than one area of the country, our operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. The regional nature of our business also makes us vulnerable to changes in regional weather and its impact on the regional construction industry. Our operating profit is generally lower in our fiscal quarter ending on the last day of February than it is in our other three fiscal quarters because of the impact of winter weather on construction activity. Although southern California and Texas are regions characterized by longer periods of favorable weather, extended periods of inclement weather can reduce construction activity at any time of the year. The availability and pricing of energy could lower our results of operations and harm our financial condition. In the past, our results of operations and financial condition have been, and may again in the future be, worsened by increases in energy costs or lack of availability of energy sources. We are dependent upon energy sources, including electricity and fossil fuels. Prices for energy are subject to market forces largely beyond our control. We have generally not entered into any long-term contracts to satisfy our fuel and electricity needs. If we are unable to meet our requirements for fuel and electricity, we may experience interruptions in our production. Price increases or disruption of the uninterrupted supply of these products could adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur substantial expenditures to comply with environmental laws which may adversely affect our results of operations and harm our financial condition. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other matters, air emissions, kiln dust disposal and wastewater discharge. We believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, from time to time we receive claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and entities asserting that we are or may be in violation of certain environmental laws and regulations. Based on our experience and information currently available to us, we believe that such claims will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Despite our compliance and experience, it is possible that we could be held liable for future charges which might be material but are not currently known or estimable. In addition, changes in federal or state laws, regulations or requirements or discovery of currently unknown conditions could require additional expenditures by us, interrupt production or hinder our ability to build new or expand production facilities. Many of the raw materials, products and by-products associated with the operation of any industrial facility, including those for the production of cement or concrete products, contain chemical elements or compounds that can be designated as hazardous. Some examples are the metals present in cement kiln dust, or CKD, and the ignitability of the waste-derived fuels that we use as a primary or supplementary fuel substitute for nonrenewable coal and natural gas to fire certain of our cement kilns. Currently, CKD is exempt from hazardous waste management standards under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, if certain tests are satisfied. We have demonstrated that the CKD we generate satisfies these tests. We utilize hazardous materials such as gasoline, acids, solvents and chemicals as well as materials that have been designated or characterized as hazardous waste by the EPA, for energy recovery. As a result, we need to familiarize our work force with the more exacting requirements of applicable environmental laws and regulations with respect to human health and the environment related to these activities. The failure to observe these exacting requirements could jeopardize our hazardous waste management permits and, under certain circumstances, expose us to significant liabilities and costs of cleaning up releases of hazardous substances into the environment or claims by employees or others alleging exposure to hazardous substances. On occasion, we dispose hazardous waste that we use in our plants, such as cleaning fluids, at hazardous waste disposal facilities. If a landfill or hazardous material disposal operator disposes of our waste in a way that creates an environmental hazard, we and all others who deposited materials could become liable for cleanup costs, fines and other expenses many years after the disposal was completed. We intend to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment and health and safety matters, but since many of these requirements are subjective and therefore not quantifiable, are presently not determinable, or are likely to be affected by future legislation or rule making by government agencies, it is not possible to accurately predict the aggregate future costs of compliance and their effect on our operations, future net income or financial condition. Notwithstanding our intentions to comply with all legal requirements, if injury to persons or damage to property or contamination of the environment has been or is caused by the conduct of our business or hazardous substances or waste used in, generated or disposed of by us, we may be liable for such injuries and damages, and be required to pay the cost of investigation and remediation of such contamination. The amount of such liability could be material, and we may incur material liability in connection with possible claims related to our operations and properties under environmental, health and safety laws. - 8 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The requirements of complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may strain our resources, and our internal control over financial reporting may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable external financial reports. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, corporate governance standards and internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that management furnish a report annually regarding our internal control over financial reporting. Among other things, the report will contain (i) an assessment and statement as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, which must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight have been and will continue to be required. We may need to devote additional financial resources, time and personnel to legal, financial and accounting activities to ensure our ongoing compliance with public company reporting requirements. In the future, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as prescribed by Section 404, we may be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of the preceding year or our auditors may be unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, even if our auditors issue an unqualified opinion on our financial statements for the preceding fiscal year. If the auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation of our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, it could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, adversely affect our stock price and our ability to access the capital markets or borrow money, and may subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Future litigation could affect our profitability. The nature of our business exposes us to various litigation matters including product liability claims, employment matters, environmental matters, regulatory and administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, tort claims and contract disputes. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of existing or future litigation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties and shortcomings in the estimation process. Future litigation costs, settlements or judgments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Due to the high fixed cost nature of our business, interruptions in our production capabilities may cause our productivity and results of operations to decline significantly during the affected period. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our kilns and finishing mills. This equipment, on occasion, may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or damaged during accidents. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. In addition, our operations in California are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, for which we maintain only a limited amount of earthquake insurance and, therefore, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk. We also have one to two-week scheduled shut-downs every 12 to 24 months to refurbish our cement production facilities. Any significant interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems or damage as well as cause us to lose revenue due to lost production time, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Implementation of our growth strategy has certain risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire other reserves or operations, enter into joint ventures or form strategic alliances that we believe will expand or complement our existing business. If any of these transactions occur, they will likely involve some or all of the following risks: • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of resources and management’s time; • the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the difficulty of managing the operations of a larger company; • the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; - 9 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the risk of contractual or operational liability to joint venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation; • the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having greater financial resources than us; and • the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing business. Pursuing our growth strategy may be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms or at all. Future transactions may not improve the competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and could reduce sales or profit margins, and, therefore, earnings if they are not successful. Our business is sensitive to economic cycles. A significant percentage of our sales are attributable to the level of construction activity. Construction activity is cyclical and is influenced by prevailing economic conditions, including, interest rate levels, inflation, consumer spending habits and employment. The demand for cement, aggregate and concrete products is also generally affected by macroeconomic fluctuations in the U.S. and global economies. Additionally, fluctuations in the value of the dollar can be expected to affect our business because a strong U.S. dollar makes imported cement less expensive, resulting in more imports into the United States by foreign competitors. Future economic downturns, stagnant economies or currency fluctuations could decrease the demand for our products or increase imports, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by decreasing our volume of shipments, sales and profitability. Moreover, our industry is characterized by low backlogs, which means that our results of operations are promptly affected by short-term economic fluctuations. Our business could suffer if antidumping duties on imports from Mexico and Japan are reduced or eliminated or foreign competitors not subject to such duties increase imports. A substantial reduction or elimination of the existing antidumping duties on imports of cement and clinker from Mexico and Japan could lower our results of operations. A group of domestic cement producers, including us, filed antidumping petitions that have resulted in the imposition of significant antidumping duty cash deposits on imports of gray portland cement and clinker from Mexico and Japan. On an annual basis, the antidumping duties are subject to review by the Department of Commerce to determine whether the current antidumping duty deposit rates should be adjusted upward or downward. In 1995, the Antidumping Code of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade was substantially altered pursuant to the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations. U.S. legislation approving and implementing the Uruguay Round agreements requires the Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission, or ITC, to conduct “sunset” reviews of all outstanding antidumping orders including the antidumping orders against gray portland cement and clinker from Mexico and Japan to determine whether they should be terminated or remain in effect. In 2000, the Department of Commerce and the ITC conducted sunset reviews and determined that the antidumping orders against Mexico and Japan should remain in effect. Mexican cement producers have appealed the sunset review determinations regarding imports from Mexico to a dispute settlement panel established under the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. Mexican cement producers have also appealed other determinations of the ITC and the Department of Commerce to NAFTA panels. The Government of Mexico has challenged the sunset review decisions and various other decisions of the ITC and the Department of Commerce before a dispute settlement panel of the World Trade Organization, or WTO. These pending NAFTA and WTO appeals could result in the reduction of antidumping duties or the revocation of the antidumping order against cement and clinker from Mexico. The ITC and the Department of Commerce are scheduled to conduct second sunset reviews of the antidumping orders beginning in October 2005. Revocation of the antidumping orders pursuant to the pending appeals or pursuant to the second sunset reviews could lower our results of operations. Independently owned cement operators could undertake to construct new import facilities and begin to purchase cement from countries not subject to antidumping orders, such as those in Asia, which could compete with domestic producers. An influx of cement or clinker products from countries not subject to antidumping orders could lower our results of operations. The financing agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt. Our financing agreements, including our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our outstanding notes, impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. Our senior secured credit facility requires us to comply with or - 10 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements maintain certain financial tests and ratios, including a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. Restrictions contained in these financing agreements also limit or prohibit our ability and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: • pay dividends; • make certain investments and capital expenditures; • incur additional debt or sell preferred stock; • create liens; • restrict dividend payments or other payments from subsidiaries to us; • engage in consolidations and mergers or sell or transfer assets; • engage in transactions with our affiliates; and • sell stock in our subsidiaries. Various risks and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain financial tests and ratios. If we cannot comply with the financial covenants in our senior secured credit facility, we may not be able to borrow under this facility. In addition, failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they made to supply us with further funds. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by our financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments of our financing agreements, if necessary, at acceptable terms or at all. The spin-off could result in significant tax liability. Our distribution of the common stock of Chaparral was conditioned upon our receipt of an opinion from our tax counsel to the effect that, among other things, the distribution qualified as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, to us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The opinion is based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as upon certain undertakings. We are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the representations and assumptions to be untrue or incomplete in any material respect. If, however, any of those factual representations or assumptions were untrue or incomplete in any material respect, any undertaking was not complied with, or the facts upon which the opinion is based were materially different from the facts at the time of the distribution, the distribution may not qualify for tax-free treatment. Under current policy of the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, advance rulings will not be issued for certain significant aspects of spin-off transactions. Therefore, we did not apply for an advance ruling from the IRS with respect to the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the courts or the IRS, and the conclusions expressed in the opinion delivered to us could be challenged by the IRS. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, we would be subject to tax as if we had sold the Chaparral common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value. Our stockholders would be treated as if they had received a taxable dividend equal to the fair market value of the Chaparral common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a stockholder’s basis in its shares of our common stock) for U.S. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a stockholder’s pro rata share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any taxable gain of ours with respect to the spin-off). It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to our stockholders and us would be substantial. Our ability to engage in acquisitions and other strategic transactions is subject to limitations because we agreed to certain restrictions in order to comply with U.S. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin-off. Current U.S. tax law that applies to spin-offs generally creates a presumption that the spin-off would be taxable to us but not to our stockholders if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a transaction (or series of transactions) that would result in a 50% or greater change by vote or by value in our stock ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date two years before the distribution date, unless it is established that the transaction (or a series of transactions) is not pursuant to a plan related to the spin-off. U.S. Treasury regulations generally provide that whether an acquisition transaction and a spin-off transaction are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including specific factors listed in the regulations. In addition, the regulations provide certain “safe harbors” for acquisition transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. - 11 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements There are other restrictions imposed on us under current U.S. federal income tax laws for spin-offs with which we will need to comply in order to preserve the favorable tax treatment of the distribution of Chaparral common stock to our stockholders, such as continuing to own and manage our CAC business and limitations on sales or redemptions of our common stock for cash or other property following the distribution. In our tax sharing and indemnification agreement with Chaparral, we agreed that, among other things, we will not take any actions that would result in any tax being imposed on the spin-off. Further, during the two-year period following the spin-off, we may not repurchase any of our stock except in certain circumstances permitted by the IRS nor may we during the six-month period following the spin-off, except in certain specified transactions, liquidate, merge or consolidate with another person or sell or dispose of our assets (or those of certain of our subsidiaries) except in the ordinary course of business. We may, however, take certain actions prohibited by the tax sharing and indemnification agreement if we receive an unqualified opinion of tax counsel or an IRS ruling acceptable to us, to the effect that these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the spin-off. These restrictions could substantially limit our strategic and operational flexibility, including our ability to finance our operations by issuing equity securities, make acquisitions using equity securities, repurchase our equity securities, raise money by selling assets or enter into business combination transactions. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Chaparral or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Chaparral. In the tax sharing and indemnification agreement between us and Chaparral, Chaparral agreed to indemnify us and our subsidiaries for any loss, including any adjustment to our taxes, resulting from (1) any action or failure to act by Chaparral or any of its subsidiaries following the completion of the spin-off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin-off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to us and our stockholders under Section 355 of the Code, (2) certain acquisitions of its equity securities or assets or those of certain of its subsidiaries, and (3) any breach of any representation or covenant given by Chaparral or its subsidiaries in the separation documents or in connection with the tax opinion delivered by our tax counsel in connection with the spin-off. Chaparral’s indemnification obligations to us and our subsidiaries, officers and directors, are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement between us and Chaparral, we and Chaparral have agreed to indemnify each other with respect to the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that will be retained by our respective companies. These indemnification obligations could be significant. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify Chaparral for any substantial obligations after the distribution. We also cannot assure you that, if Chaparral has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Chaparral will have the ability to satisfy those obligations to us. If Chaparral is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity to us under the circumstances set forth above, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. Executive Officers Following is information as of July 1, 2005 about the persons who are our executive officers after the spin-off: Mel G. Brekhus, age 56, has been President and Chief Executive Officer since June 1, 2004. From 1998 through May 2004, he was Executive Vice President, Cement, Aggregate and Concrete. He joined us in 1989 as Vice President, Cement Production and within a short period became Vice President, Cement. His career in the cement industry began in 1972 when he joined Lehigh Portland Cement Company (1972-1983). While at Lehigh, he held various positions as Chemist, Production Manager and Plant Manager throughout the United States. He was Technical Manager and Plant Manager for Missouri Portland Cement Company (1984-1989) in their Midwest operations. His professional affiliations include the Portland Cement Association, where he is Past Chairman and presently a Director. Richard M. Fowler, age 62, has been Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer since July 2000. He was Vice President-Controller (1972-1984), Vice President Finance-Steel (1985-1987) and Vice President Finance-TXI (1987-2000). As a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), he maintains membership in both the Texas Society and the American Institute of CPAs, is a member of the Financial Executive Institute and serves on the Advisory Board of FM Global and the Board of Directors of Dee Brown, Inc. Frederick G. Anderson, age 54, has been Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since November 2004. He has been a practicing attorney for 25 years. From March 2003 until November 2004 he engaged in the private practice of law, including as of counsel to Davis Munck P.C., a Dallas, Texas based law firm. From August 1997 through March 2003, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of WebLink Wireless, Inc., a wireless telecommunications company that filed a petition under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in May 2001 and emerged from chapter 11 a year - 12 - Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements later. Mr. Anderson maintains membership in the State Bar of Texas, American Bar Association and Dallas Bar Association. Barry M. Bone, age 47, has been Vice President—Real Estate since 1995 and President of Brookhollow Corporation, our real estate subsidiary, since 1991. J. Lynn Davis, age 56, has been Vice President-Cement since December 1996. He joined us in 1971 and has served in various positions in our CAC operations since then. William J. Durbin, age 60, has been Vice President—Human Resources since March 2000. From 1996 to 2000, he served as Vice President-Human Resources and Administration of USI Bath & Plumbing Products, and Vice President-Human Resources of Zurn Industries . Stephen D. Mayfield, age 45, has been Vice President-Aggregates since September 2000. He joined us in 1984 and has held various positions in our CAC operations since then. He is a director of the National Stone Sand and Gravel Association and a member and former director of the Texas Aggregate and Concrete Association. James B. Rogers, age 38, has been Vice President-Consumer Products since August 2002. He joined us in 1996 and has held various positions in our CAC operations since then, including General Manager-Consumer Products from November 2000 until August 2002. He is a director of the National Ready-Mix Concrete Association and the Texas Aggregates and Concrete Association. Mr. Rogers is the son of Robert D. Rogers, our Chairman of the Board. Executive officers are elected annually by the board of directors and serve at the pleasure of the board. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by us at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. The SEC maintains an internet web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our filings are also available to the public at the website maintained by the SEC, http://www.sec.gov. We make available, free of charge, through our investor relations website our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The URL for our investor relations website is www.txi.com. 