Item 1A: Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our revenues from the sale of land are subject to substantial fluctuation. We are a passive seller of land and land sales are subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Land sales vary widely from year to year and quarter to quarter. The total dollar amount, the average price per acre, and the number of acres sold in any one year or quarter should not be assumed to be indicative of land sales in the future. The Trust is a passive seller of land and does not actively solicit sales of land. The demand for, and the sale price of, any particular tract of the Trust’s land is influenced by many factors, including, the national and local economies, the rate of residential and commercial development in nearby areas, livestock carrying capacity and the condition of the local agricultural industry, which itself is influenced by range conditions and prices for livestock and agricultural products. Approximately 99% of the Trust’s land is classified as ranch land and intermingled with parcels owned by third parties to form ranching units. The Trust’s ability to sell ranch land is, therefore, largely dependent on the actions of adjoining landowners. The Trust’s remaining holdings of land in metropolitan areas are limited. The sale price of land suitable for development in metropolitan areas is generally substantially higher than the price of land in rural or ranching areas. The Trust’s remaining holdings of land suitable for development in metropolitan areas are limited. The Trust is not an oil and gas producer. Its revenues from oil and gas royalties are subject to the actions of others. The Trust is not an oil and gas producer. Its oil and gas income is derived from perpetual non-participating oil and gas royalty interests which it has retained. As wells age the costs of production may increase and their capacity may decline absent additional investment. However, the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells make all decisions as to investments in, and production from, those wells and the Trust’s royalties will be dependent upon decisions made by 3 those operators, among other factors. The Railroad Commission of the State of Texas sets authorized production levels for pro rated wells by regulation. The monthly percentage of allowable production has averaged 100% in recent years. However, in the past the Trust’s income from oil and gas royalties has been limited by the production levels authorized by the Railroad Commission and we cannot assure you that they may not be so limited in the future. The Trust’s oil and gas royalty revenue is dependent upon the market prices of oil and gas which fluctuate. The oil and gas royalties which the Trust receives are dependent upon the market prices for oil and gas. The market prices for oil and gas are subject to national and international economic and political conditions and, in the past, have been subject to significant price fluctuations. While the Trust’s oil and gas royalties have benefited from recent increases in the market prices for oil and gas, we cannot assure you that future decreases in the market prices of oil and gas will not occur. If such decreases in the market prices of oil and gas do occur they may have an adverse effect on our oil and gas royalty revenues. If the liability of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares were to be found to be governed by the laws of Texas, holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares might be held to have personal liability for claims against the Trust, to the extent such claims exceeded the assets of the Trust. The Declaration of Trust which established the Trust was executed and delivered in New York. Under the laws of the State of New York, the holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares are not subject to any personal liability for the acts or obligations of the Trust. The assets of the Trust are located in Texas. Under the laws of the State of Texas the holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares may be held personally liable with respect to claims against the Trust, but only after the assets of the Trust first have been exhausted. Thus, if a court were to hold that the liability of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares for obligations is governed by the laws of Texas, rather than New York, it is possible that holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares might be held to have personal liability for claims against the Trust to the extent such claims exceeded all of the Trust’s assets. The Trustees are not subject to annual election and, as a result, the ability of the holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares to influence the policies of the Trust may be limited. Directors of a corporation are generally subject to election at each annual meeting of stockholders or, in the case of staggered boards, at regular intervals. Under the Declaration of Trust, however, the Trust is not required to hold annual meetings of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares to elect Trustees and Trustees generally hold office until their death, resignation or disqualification. As a result, the ability of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub-shares to effect changes in the Board of Trustees, and the policies of the Trust, is significantly more limited than that of the stockholders of a corporation. 4 Our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations for a full year. Sales of land fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Revenues from oil and gas royalties may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon market prices for oil and gas and production decisions made by the operators. As a result, the results of our operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 