Risk Factors (continued) Our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $2.20 billion in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, we had the ability to incur an additional $955 million of indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. Our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. Our ability to satisfy our obligations depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations. If we are unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. The covenants in our revolving credit facility include a debt-to-EBITDA ratio. Specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any lender has any commitment under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is outstanding under the facility, or any letter of credit is outstanding under the facility, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the facility) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio (the ratio of consolidated Indebtedness to Consolidated EBITDA) as at the last day of any fiscal quarter to be greater than 3.0 to 1.0. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. Also, an acceleration of the debt under one of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 