ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS · Our operations are primarily dependent upon the retail and aerospace industries. Our operations may be affected adversely by general economic conditions and events which result in reduced customer spending in the markets served by our products in the retail and aerospace industries. Any downturn in either or both industries could materially and adversely affect the overall financial condition of our company. · Our company is highly leveraged. Our ability to access additional capital or liquidate non-core assets may be limited and require significant lead time. If we are able to raise additional capital, interest rates or other terms may be unfavorable and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. As such, our cash requirements are dependent upon our ability to achieve and execute internal business plans, including: o Our ability to accurately predict demand for our products; o Our ability to receive timely deliveries from suppliers; o Our ability to raise cash to meet seasonal and other demands; o Our ability to maintain customer satisfaction, attract customers to our stores, and deliver products of quality; o Our ability to properly assess our competition; and o Our ability to improve our operations to profitability status. An adverse assessment in our prediction of our cash requirements and execution of internal business plans could materially and adversely affect the overall financial condition of our company. · Foreign exchange rate risks. We purchase and sell a significant amount of our products internationally. In most markets sales are made in the foreign country’s local currency. Additionally, a significant amount of purchases are made in currencies other than the foreign country’s local currency. We do not place a significant reliance on the use of derivative financial instruments to attempt to manage risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that in the future we will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations from exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates. · Interest rate risk. We are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on our variable rate financing. Increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on our available cash and our results of operations and adversely affect the overall financial condition of our company. · Government regulation. We must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. Our sales and operations in areas outside the United States may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. These laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies could result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the Company to sell its products in certain countries. Our international sales operations may also be adversely affected by United States laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. Our domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the United States Government, including the Environmental Protection Agency, Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Labor, Federal Aviation Administration, and Federal Trade Commission. In addition, we are subject to policies and actions of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. We are subject to numerous local government laws and regulations, including those relating to the operation of our retail stores. We are also subject to laws governing our relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, laws and regulations relating to overtime, working and safety conditions, and citizenship requirements. Material increases in the cost of compliance with any applicable law or regulation and similar matters could materially and adversely affect the overall financial condition of our company. In addition, our competition may not be subject to the requirements of the SEC or the NYSE rules. As a result, we may be required to expend funds on financial and other controls and disclose certain information that could put us at a competitive disadvantage to our principal competitors. 8 · Economic, political, and other risks associated with business activities in foreign countries. Because we plan to continue using foreign manufacturers, our operating results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other factors in foreign countries. We currently use suppliers in Asia to manufacture a significant amount of the products we sell, and we plan to continue using foreign suppliers to manufacture these products. These international operations are subject to inherent risks, which may adversely affect us, including: o political and economic instability; o high levels of inflation, historically the case in a number of countries in Asia; o burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; o foreign taxes; and o changes in tariff rates or other trade and monetary policies. · Our operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled personnel in all areas of our organization. The current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and cash bonuses, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. If we do not succeed in attracting personnel or retaining and motivating existing personnel, we may be unable to develop and distribute products and services or grow effectively. The success of one or more of our operations is dependent on our ability to satisfy top managers and core employees, who may negotiate as a group. · We have a number of worldwide competitors of varying sizes some of which have greater financial resources than we do. Several of our competitors are more diversified than we are, and/or they may have greater financial resources than we do. Also, if price becomes a more important competitive factor for our customers, we may have a competitive disadvantage. Failure to adequately address and quickly respond to these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. · Our marketing strategy of associating our retail products with a motorcycling lifestyle may not be successful with future customers. We have had success in marketing our products to motorcyclists. The lifestyle of motorcyclists is now more typically associated with a customer base comprised of individuals who are, on average, in their mid-forties. To sustain long-term growth, the motorcycle industry must continue to be successful in promoting motorcycling to customers new to the sport of motorcycling including women and younger riders. Accordingly, we must be successful providing products that satisfy the latest fashion desires and protection requirements of our customers. Failure to adequately address and quickly respond to our customers needs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. · Our success in our retail operations depends upon the continued strength of the Hein Gericke and PoloExpress brands. We believe that our Hein Gericke and PoloExpress brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing the brands is critical to maintaining and expanding our customer base. Failure to protect the brands from infringers or to grow the value of our Hein Gericke and PoloExpress brands could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. · Our future growth will suffer if we do not achieve sufficient market acceptance of our products to compete effectively. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to gain acceptance of our current and future products by a large number of customers. Achieving market- based acceptance for our products will require marketing efforts and the expenditure of financial and other resources to create product awareness and demand by potential customers. We may be unable to offer products consistently, or at all, that compete effectively with products of others on the basis of price or performance. Failure to achieve broad acceptance of our products by potential customers and to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. · Quarterly fluctuations. Quarterly results of our PoloExpress and Hein Gericke segments’ operations have historically fluctuated as a result of retail customers purchasing patterns, with the highest quarters in terms of sales and profitability being our third and fourth quarters. Any economic downturn occurring in our third and fourth quarters could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 9 · We incur substantial costs and cash funding requirements with respect to pension benefits and providing healthcare to our former employees. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other post-retirement healthcare benefits require the use of assumptions. These assumptions include the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, and several assumptions relating to the retirees’ medical costs and mortality. Actual results may differ, which may have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity. Our largest pension plan is in an underfunded situation, and our future funding requirements were projected based upon legislation that changed in fiscal 2006. Any additional changes in the pension laws or estimates used could have a material adverse effect on our future funding requirements, business and results of operations. In addition, rising healthcare and retirement benefit costs in the United States may put us at a competitive disadvantage. · If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in the industries we serve. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. · Expense of being a public company. The costs of being a small to mid-sized public company have increased substantially with the introduction and implementation of controls and procedures mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have seen audit fees and audit related fees significantly increase in past years. These increases, and any additional burden placed by future legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future results of operations, or net cash flows. For fiscal 2006, we were not required to have an external audit of our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404. We will continue to assess our future requirements to report on our assessment of controls or have an external audit of our internal controls on an annual basis. · Concentrated ownership of voting shares. As of September 30, 2006, the Steiner family beneficially owns approximately 60.3% of the aggregate vote of shares of the Company. Therefore, the ability for individual shareholders to influence the direction of the Company may be limited. · Environmental matters. As an owner and former owner and operator of property, including those at which we performed manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties. We routinely assess our environmental accruals for identified concerns at locations of our former operations. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. · Legal matters. We are involved in various other claims and lawsuits incidental to our business or predecessor businesses. We, either on our own or through our insurance carriers, are contesting these matters. In the opinion of management, the ultimate resolution of litigation against us will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future results of operations or net cash flows. However, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists a possibility that a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations could occur in the period for which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materializes, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those expected, estimated or projected. If two or more of these risks or other risks or uncertainties occur individually or simultaneously, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash position. Given these uncertainties, users of the information included in this report, including investors and prospective investors, are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update the forward-looking statements included in this filing, even if new information, future events or other circumstances have made them incorrect or misleading. 10 ITEM 