Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements in this filing contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to our financial condition, results of operation and business. These statements relate to analyses and other information, which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “will” and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including current trend information, projections for deliveries, backlog and other trend estimates that may cause our actual future activities and results of operations to be materially different from those suggested or described in this annual report. These risks include: Our ability to finance and successfully operate our retail businesses; Our ability to accurately predict demand for our products; Our ability to receive timely deliveries from vendors; Our ability to raise cash to meet seasonal demands; Our dependence on the retail and aerospace industries; Our ability to maintain customer satisfaction and deliver products of quality; Our ability to properly assess our competition; Our ability to improve our operations to profitability status; Our ability to liquidate non-core assets to meet cash needs; Our ability to attract and retain highly qualified executive management; Our ability to achieve and execute internal business plans; If one or more of these and other risks or uncertainties materializes, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those expected, estimated or projected. Given these uncertainties, users of the information included in this annual report, including investors and prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update the forward-looking statements included in this filing, even if new information, future events or other circumstances have made them incorrect or misleading. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General The Fairchild Corporation was incorporated in October 1969, under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our business consists of three segments: sports & leisure, aerospace, and real estate operations. Our sports & leisure segment is engaged in the design and retail sale of protective clothing, helmets and technical accessories for motorcyclists in Europe and the design and distribution of such apparel and helmets in the United States. Our aerospace segment stocks a wide variety of aircraft parts and distributes them to commercial airlines and air cargo carriers, fixed-base operators, corporate aircraft operators and other aerospace companies worldwide. Our real estate operations segment owns and leases a shopping center located in Farmingdale, New York, and owns and rents two improved parcels located in Southern California. On November 1, 2003, we acquired substantially all of the worldwide operations of Hein Gericke, PoloExpress, and Intersport Fashions West (IFW), collectively now known as Fairchild Sports. These operations comprise our sports & leisure segment. On December 3, 2002, we completed the sale of our fastener business to Alcoa Inc. for approximately $657 million in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. In addition, we earned additional proceeds of $12.5 million in each of fiscal 2005 and 2004 and may also earn additional cash proceeds up to $12.5 million per year over each of the next two years, if the number of commercial aircraft delivered by Boeing and Airbus exceeds specified annual levels. On December 21, 2005, we signed a definitive agreement to sell our Farmingdale, New York, power shopping center, Airport Plaza, to KRC Acquisition Corp., acting on behalf of a joint venture comprised of Kimco Realty Corporation and a fund managed by a major investment bank, for approximately $95 million. The purchaser has agreed to deposit into escrow $4.75 million to ensure its obligations and to seek the approval of our mortgage lender to assume our existing mortgage loan of approximately $53.8 million, or to defease the loan. The closing will take place following purchaser’s obtaining consent of the mortgage lender to its loan assumption, which could occur as early as February 2006. If the loan is defeased, the transaction may not close until as late as July 2006. The sale does not include several other undeveloped parcels of real estate that we own in the Town, the largest of which is under contract of sale to the market chain, Stew Leonards. We decided to sell the shopping center to enhance our financial flexibility, allowing us to invest in existing operations or pursue other opportunities. Financial Information about Business Segments Our business segment information is incorporated herein by reference from Note 16 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Narrative Description of Business Segments Sports & Leisure Segment Our sports & leisure segment, also known as Fairchild Sports, is engaged in the design and retail sale of motorcycle apparel, protective clothing, helmets and technical accessories for motorcyclists in Europe and the design and distribution of such apparel and helmets in the United States. The Fairchild Sports group is made up of the worldwide operations of Hein Gericke, PoloExpress, and Intersport Fashions West (IFW). Hein Gericke currently operates 145 retail shops in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. PoloExpress currently operates 87 retail shops in Germany and one shop in Switzerland. IFW, located in Tustin, California, is a designer and distributor of motorcycle accessories, and other protective apparel, and helmets, under several labels, including Hein Gericke. In addition, IFW designs and produces apparel under private labels for third parties. IFW also distributes in the United States, products manufactured by or for other companies, under their own label. Fairchild Sports is a seasonal business, with a historic trend of a higher volume of sales and profits during the months of March through September. Our sports & leisure segment accounted for approximately 73% of our consolidated revenues in fiscal 2005. Products Products for the Hein Gericke and PoloExpress companies include motorcycle apparel, helmets, boots, protective clothing, and technical accessories for motorcycle enthusiasts. The majority of the products are sold at retail stores leased by us and operated by shop partners who sell our products in accordance with agreements with us permitting the shop partner to operate and maintain an individual store. Shop partners are paid a commission based on the performance of their store. All inventory in the stores is owned by us and until sold remains our property. Mail order and internet sales do not make up a material percentage of the total sales. The Hein Gericke retail stores sell predominantly Hein Gericke brand products, and the Polo retail stores sell predominantly Polo brand products. Both the Hein Gericke and Polo retail stores sell products of other manufacturers. The products are manufactured by third parties located principally in Asia, and the products are shipped to our leased warehouses, where they are temporarily stored until shipped to the individual retail stores for sale. The main warehouses for Hein Gericke are located in Düsseldorf, Germany, and Harrogate, England, and the main warehouse for PoloExpress is located in Düsseldorf, Germany. IFW is a designer and distributor of motorcycle apparel, boots and helmets under several labels, including Hein Gericke. In addition, IFW designs and produces apparel under private labels for third parties, including Honda and Yamaha. IFW also recently created the G-Line women’s motorcycle product line designed specifically for women. Sales and Markets Hein Gericke and PoloExpress mainly sell their products in Europe through their retail stores. Both Hein Gericke and PoloExpress operate stores throughout Europe with Hein Gericke having stores in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom, and PoloExpress has operating stores in Germany and Switzerland. Approximately 67% of the sales are to customers in Germany and 15% are to customers in the United Kingdom. Since the vast majority of the sales are through these retail stores, we have a very large number of customers. Mainly due to the prevailing weather in Western Europe, our business is very seasonal with a historic trend of a higher volume of sales and profits during the months of March through September. IFW sells as a designer and distributor in the United States, to companies such as Honda, Yamaha, Harley-Davidson Dealers and other Independent Dealers. In total, the sports & leisure segment had foreign sales (outside the United States) of 89% and domestic sales of 11%. Competition Hein Gericke and PoloExpress face competition from other European retail sellers of motorcycle equipment and clothing, including Harley-Davidson, Louis and Dianese. There is a large market for motorcycle enthusiasts in Europe and competition is tight among the retailers. We believe that key market positions are held by PoloExpress and Hein Gericke, combined, in Germany, and Hein Gericke in the United Kingdom. Aerospace Segment Our aerospace segment consists of aerospace operations that are conducted through our subsidiary Banner Aerospace Holding Company I, Inc. We offer a wide variety of aircraft parts and component repair and overhaul services. The aircraft parts which we distribute are either purchased on the open market or acquired from OEMs as an authorized distributor. No single distributor arrangement is material to our financial condition. Our aerospace segment accounted for approximately 24% of our consolidated revenues in fiscal 2005. Products Products of the aerospace operations include rotable parts, such as flight data recorders, radar and navigation systems, instruments, hydraulic and electrical components, space components and certain defense related items. Rotable parts are sometimes purchased as new parts, but are generally purchased in the aftermarket and are then overhauled by us or for us by outside contractors, including OEMs or FAA-licensed facilities. Rotables are sold in a variety of condition such as new, overhauled, serviceable and “as is”. Rotables may also be exchanged instead of sold. An exchange occurs when an item in inventory is exchanged for a customer’s part and the customer is charged an exchange fee. An extensive inventory of products and a quick response time are essential in providing support to our customers. Another key factor in selling to our customers is our ability to maintain a system that traces a part back to the manufacturer or repair facility. We also offer immediate shipment of parts in aircraft-on-ground situations. Through our FAA-licensed repair station, we provide a number of services such as component repair and overhaul services. Component repair and overhaul capabilities include pressurization, instrumentation, avionics, aircraft accessories and airframe components. Sales and Markets Our aerospace operations sell products in the United States and abroad to commercial airlines, air cargo carriers, fixed-base operators, corporate aircraft operators, distributors and other aerospace companies. Our aerospace operations conduct marketing efforts through direct sales forces, outside representatives and, for some product lines, overseas sales offices. Sales in the aviation aftermarket depend on price, service, quality and reputation. Our aerospace segment’s business does not experience significant seasonal fluctuations nor depend on a single customer. Approximately 58% of our aerospace sales are to domestic purchasers, some of which may represent offshore users. Competition Our aerospace operation competes with AAR Corp, Volvo Aero Services, Duncan Aviation, Stevens Aviation; OEMs such as Honeywell, Rockwell Collins, Raytheon, and Litton; other repair and overhaul organizations; and many smaller companies. We face intense competition in the aerospace industry, as we are one of many companies competing for business. Quality, performance, service and price are generally the prime competitive factors in the aerospace industry. We seek to maintain a higher level of quality and performance over our competitors. Real Estate Operations Segment Our real estate operations segment owns and operates a 451,000 square foot shopping center located in Farmingdale, New York, owns and leases to Alcoa a 208,000 square foot manufacturing facility located in Fullerton, California, and also owns and leases to PCA Aerospace a 58,000 square foot manufacturing facility located in Huntington Beach, California. We have two tenants that each occupy more than 10% of the rentable space of the shopping center. As of September 30, 2005, approximately 98% of the shopping center was leased. Tenants leasing space at our shopping center include: Staples; Modell’s; Jillian’s; Borders Books; Comp USA; Radio Shack; Hallmark; and others. In addition, Home Depot leases a portion of the shopping center real estate. The Fullerton property is leased to Alcoa through October 2007. Rental revenue from our real estate operations segment represents approximately 3% of our consolidated revenues. Our real estate operations segment represents approximately 25% of our total assets. Foreign Operations Our operations are located throughout the world. Inter-area sales are not significant to the total revenue of any geographic area. Export sales are made by U.S. businesses to customers in non-U.S. countries, whereas foreign sales are made by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. For our sales results by geographic area and export sales, see Note 17 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Backlog of Orders Substantially all of the products we sell are provided to our customers immediately. Backlog is not an important component to our overall business. Suppliers In 2005, our sports and leisure segment purchased approximately 30% of its products from Kido Industrial Co, Ltd. In 2005, our aerospace segment purchased approximately 28% of its products from Universal Avionics Systems. We are not materially dependent upon any other single supplier, but we are dependent upon a wide range of subcontractors, vendors and suppliers of materials to meet our commitments to our customers. From time to time, we enter into exclusive supply contracts in return for logistics and price advantages. We do not believe that any one of these exclusive contracts would impair our operations if a supplier failed to perform. Research and Patents We own patents relating to the design of certain of our products and have licenses of technology covered by the patents of other companies. We do not believe that any of our business segments are dependent upon any single patent. Personnel As of September 30, 2005, we had approximately 550 employees. Approximately 220 of these were based in the United States, and 330 were based in Europe. None of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Overall, we believe that relations with our employees are good. Environmental Matters A discussion of our environmental matters is included in Note 15, “Contingencies”, to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and is incorporated herein by reference. Available Information Our Internet address is www.fairchild.com. We make available free of charge, on our Internet website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 