Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that could pose a material risk to our business, its operating results, its financial condition and its ability to execute its business plan, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: Negative economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The success of Thomas & Betts’ business is directly linked to positive economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products. We do business in geographically diverse markets. In 2010, approximately one-third of our net sales were generated outside of the United States. The current economic environment has had an adverse effect on historical demand in our primary markets and a continued decline in economic activity could adversely affect demand for products in each of our business segments, thereby having a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, these conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. Finally, a continued decline in economic activity could result in adverse changes to our current stock market-related fundamentals and current projected future operating results that are used to assess asset valuations (including goodwill and other intangible assets). Such revisions could lead to potentially significant financial impairment charges for these assets in future periods. Material adverse changes in economic (including the potential negative impact of higher interest rates and availability of credit on capital spending in the markets we serve) or industry conditions generally or in the specific markets served by Thomas & Betts could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A significant reduction in the supply of commodity raw materials could materially disrupt our business and rising and volatile costs for commodity raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In recent years, we have experienced rising and, at times, volatile costs for commodity raw materials (steel, aluminum, copper, zinc, resins and rubber compounds) and energy. Additionally, increased worldwide demand for steel has, at times, caused the availability of steel to be a concern, and resin supply has, at times, been disrupted by natural disasters. Any significant accidents, labor disputes, fires, severe weather, floods or other difficulties encountered by our principal suppliers could result in production delays or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis. We may also not be able to fully offset in the future the effects of rising and at times volatile costs for commodity raw materials and energy through price increases for our products, productivity improvements or other cost reductions. Page 10 of 93 Table of Contents Significant changes in customer demand due to increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. As Thomas & Betts works to enhance its product offerings, its competitors will most likely continue to improve their products and will likely develop new offerings with competitive price and performance characteristics. Because of the intensity of the competition in the product areas and geographic markets that we serve, we could experience increased downward pressure on the selling prices for certain of our products. Additionally, enhanced product offerings by competitors, coupled with any unforeseeable significant changes in customer demand for products of Thomas & Betts, could impact overall product mix, pricing, margins, plant utilization levels and asset valuations, thereby having a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A significant asset included in our working capital is accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. A significant deterioration in the economy could have an adverse effect on the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. Although we are not dependent on any one customer for more than 10% of our sales, deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers at the same time could have a material adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. Unforeseen adverse regulatory, environmental, monetary and other governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Thomas & Betts is subject to governmental regulations and policies throughout the world. Unforeseen changes in these governmental regulations and policies could reduce our profitability. Namely, significant changes in monetary or fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad could result in currency fluctuations, including fluctuations in the Canadian dollar, Euro and British pound, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our net sales, costs and expenses. Furthermore, significant changes in any number of governmental policies could create trade restrictions, patent enforcement issues, adverse tax rate changes and changes to tax treatment of items such as tax credits, withholding taxes and transfer pricing. These changes might limit our ability to sell products in certain markets, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our operations are subject to or could become subject to, international, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including emissions and discharges of pollutants (including green house gases) into the air, soil and water and the generation and handling of waste. Thomas & Betts is also subject to laws relating to occupational health and safety. The operation of manufacturing plants involves a high level of susceptibility in these areas, and there is no assurance that we will not incur material environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities in the future. Moreover, expectations of remediation expenses could be affected by, and potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with, environmental regulations and health and safety laws that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Future remediation technology advances could adversely impact expectations of remediation expenses. Page 11 of 93 Table of Contents Unfavorable litigation outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are and may in the future be party to legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability, intellectual property and contractual disputes. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we cannot offer any assurance that existing litigation or future adverse developments may not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Inability to access capital markets may adversely impact our business. Our ability to invest in our businesses and make strategic acquisitions may require access to capital markets. If we are unable to access the capital markets as needed, we could experience a material adverse impact on our business. Our facilities or facilities of our customers could be susceptible to natural disasters. Thomas & Betts has operations in over 20 countries and sells to customers throughout the world. Should a natural disaster such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flood severely damage a major manufacturing, distribution or headquarters facility of Thomas & Betts, or damage a major facility of one or more of our significant customers or important suppliers, our business could be materially disrupted. Possible inadequate insurance coverage. In accordance with its risk management practices, Thomas & Betts continually reevaluates risks, their potential cost and the cost of minimizing them. To reduce the Corporation’s exposure to material risks, in certain circumstances, we purchase insurance. Certain risks are inherent in the manufacturing of our products and our insurance may not be adequate to cover potential claims against us involving our products. Thomas & Betts is also exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of products. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot assure that the coverage limits under these insurance programs will be adequate to protect Thomas & Betts against future claims, or that we will be able to obtain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Terrorist Acts and Acts of War could adversely impact our business and operating results. Terrorist acts and acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors or customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by acts of war and have policy limits for losses caused by terrorist acts. Risks and uncertainties related to the Corporation’s operations in Mexico could negatively impact the Corporation’s operating results. The Corporation has extensive manufacturing operations located in Mexico, a country in which there are potential risks related to geo-political events, political instability, corruption, economic volatility, drug cartel and gang-related violence, social and ethnic unrest, enforcement of property rights, governmental regulations, and public safety and security, among others. As in many Page 12 of 93 Table of Contents developing markets, there are also uncertainties in how local law is applied, including areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. As a result, events could occur in Mexico, which are beyond the Corporation’s control, which could restrict the Corporation’s ability to operate its manufacturing locations in Mexico or significantly reduce the Corporation’s ability to transport products manufactured at these locations out of Mexico. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 