Item 1A. Risk Factors, include: • negative economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition; • a significant reduction in the supply of commodity raw materials could materially disrupt our business and rising and volatile costs for commodity raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our profitability; • significant changes in customer demand due to increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A reference in this Report to “we”, “our”, “us”, “Thomas & Betts” or the “Corporation” refers to Thomas & Betts Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Page 3 of 96 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Thomas & Betts Corporation is a leading designer and manufacturer of electrical components used in industrial, commercial, communications, and utility markets. We are also a leading producer of highly engineered steel structures, used primarily for utility transmission, and commercial heating units. We have operations in approximately 20 countries. Manufacturing, marketing and sales activities are concentrated primarily in North America and Europe. We pursue growth through market penetration, new product development, and acquisitions. We sell our products through the following channels: • electrical, utility, telephone, cable, and heating, ventilation and air-conditioning distributors; • mass merchandisers, catalog merchandisers and home improvement centers; and • directly to original equipment manufacturers, utilities and certain end-users. Thomas & Betts was first established in 1898 as a sales agency for electrical wires and raceways, and was incorporated and began manufacturing products in New Jersey in 1917. We were reincorporated in Tennessee in 1996. Our corporate offices are maintained at 8155 T&B Boulevard, Memphis, Tennessee 38125, and the telephone number at that address is 901-252-8000. Available Information Our internet address is www.tnb.com where interested parties can find our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports. These materials are free of charge and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We will provide electronic or paper copies of our filings free of charge upon request. General Segment Information We classify our products into the following business segments based primarily on product lines. Our segments are: • Electrical, • Steel Structures, and • Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning (“HVAC”). The majority of our products, especially those sold in the Electrical segment, have region-specific standards and are sold mostly in North America or in other regions sharing North American electrical codes. No customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales for 2007, 2006 or 2005. Electrical Segment Our Electrical segment’s markets include industrial MRO (maintenance, repair and operations), commercial, utility and residential construction; project construction; industrial original equipment manufacturers; and communication companies. This segment’s sales are concentrated primarily in North America and Europe. The Electrical segment experiences modest seasonal increases in sales Page 4 of 96 Table of Contents during the second and third quarters reflecting the construction season. Net sales for the Electrical segment for the past three years were: 2007 2006 2005 Segment Sales (in thousands) $ 1,766,598 $ 1,511,557 $ 1,377,338 Percent of Consolidated Net Sales 82.7 % 80.9 % 81.2 % The Electrical segment designs, manufactures and markets thousands of different connectors, components and other products for electrical, utility and communications applications. We have a market-leading position for many of our products. Products in the Electrical segment include: • fittings and accessories; • fastening products, such as plastic and metallic ties for bundling wire, and flexible tubing; • connectors, such as compression and mechanical connectors for high-current power and grounding applications; • indoor and outdoor switch and outlet boxes, covers and accessories; • floor boxes; • metal framing used as structural supports for conduits, cable tray and electrical enclosures; • emergency and hazardous lighting; • utility distribution connectors and switchgear; • power quality equipment and services; • CATV drop hardware; • radio frequency RF connectors; • aerial, pole, pedestal and buried splice enclosures; • encapsulation and sheath repair systems; and • other products, including insulation products, wire markers, and application tooling products. These products are sold under a variety of well-known brand names, such as Carlon®, Color Keyed®, Cyberex®, Elastimold®, Emergi-Lite®, Furse®, Iberville®, Joslyn, Kindorf®, Red-Dot®, Sta-Kon®, Steel City®, Super Strut®, Ty-Rap®, LRC®, Diamond®, Kold-N-Klose® and Snap-N-Seal®. Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is sensitive to activity in construction markets, industrial production levels and spending by utilities for replacements, expansions and efficiency improvements. The segment’s product lines are predominantly sold through major distributor chains, independent distributors and to retail home centers and hardware outlets. They are also sold directly to original equipment manufacturers, utilities, cable operators, and telecommunications and satellite TV companies. We have strong relationships with our distributors as a result of the breadth and quality of our product lines, our market-leading service programs, our strong history of product innovation, and the high degree of brand-name recognition for our products among end-users. In 2007, the Corporation completed four strategic acquisitions (Lamson & Sessions Co. (“LMS”), Joslyn Hi-Voltage, Power Solutions and Drilling Technical Supply SA) for a total investment of about $750 million. The Lamson & Sessions merger completed in November 2007 for $450 million was the largest of the four transactions and provided a leadership position in non- Page 5 of 96 Table of Contents metallic electrical boxes, fittings and flexible conduit. In total, the acquisitions broaden the Electrical segment’s offering of quality products sold under well respected brand names, such as Carlon, Cyberex and Joslyn. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these acquisitions. Steel Structures Segment Our Steel Structures segment designs, manufactures and markets highly engineered tubular steel transmission and distribution poles. We also market lattice steel transmission towers for North American power and telecommunications companies, which we currently source from third parties. These products are primarily sold to the following types of end-users: • investor-owned utilities; • cooperatives, which purchase power from utilities and manage its distribution to end-users; and • municipal utilities. These products are marketed primarily under the Meyer® and Thomas & Betts® brand names. Net sales for the Steel Structures segment for the past three years were: 2007 2006 2005 Segment Sales (in thousands) $ 227,356 $ 221,671 $ 185,995 Percent of Consolidated Net Sales 10.6 % 11.9 % 11.0 % HVAC Segment Our HVAC segment designs, manufactures and markets heating and ventilation products for commercial and industrial buildings. Products in this segment include: • gas, oil and electric unit heaters; • gas-fired duct furnaces; • indirect and direct gas-fired make-up air; • infrared heaters; and • evaporative cooling and heat recovery products. These products are sold primarily under the Reznor® brand name through HVAC, mechanical and refrigeration distributors throughout North America and Europe. Demand for HVAC products tends to be higher when these regions are experiencing cold weather and, as a result, HVAC has higher sales in the first and fourth quarters. To reduce the impact of seasonality on operations, the segment offers an off-season promotional program with its distributors. Net sales for the HVAC segment for the past three years were: 2007 2006 2005 Segment Sales (in thousands) $ 142,934 $ 135,461 $ 132,050 Percent of Consolidated Net Sales 6.7 % 7.2 % 7.8 % Page 6 of 96 Table of Contents Manufacturing and Distribution We employ advanced processes for manufacturing quality products. Our manufacturing processes include high-speed stamping, precision molding, machining, plating, pressing, welding and automated assembly. Our internal processes utilize lean manufacturing techniques designed to reduce waste and improve operating efficiencies in our facilities. We also make extensive use of computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) software and equipment to link product engineering with our manufacturing facilities. Additionally, we utilize other advanced equipment and techniques in the manufacturing and distribution process, including computer software for scheduling, material requirements planning, shop floor control, capacity planning, and the warehousing and shipment of products. Our products have historically enjoyed a reputation for quality in the markets in which they are sold. To ensure we maintain these high quality standards, all facilities embrace quality programs, and approximately 70% meet the ISO 9001 2000 standard as of December 31, 2007. Additionally, we have implemented quality control processes in our design, manufacturing, delivery and other operations in order to further improve product quality and customer service levels. Raw Materials We purchase a wide variety of raw materials for the manufacture of our products including steel, aluminum, zinc, copper, resins and rubber compounds. Sources for raw materials and component parts are well established and, with the exception of steel and certain resins, are sufficiently numerous to avoid serious future interruptions of production in the event that current suppliers are unable to sufficiently meet our needs. However, from time to time, we can encounter manufacturing disruptions in each of our segments from sporadic interruptions by our steel and resins suppliers. In addition, we could encounter price increases that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. Research and Development We have a long-standing reputation for innovation and value based upon our ability to develop products that meet the needs of the marketplace. Each of our business segments maintain research, development and engineering capabilities intended to directly respond to specific market needs. Research, development and engineering expenditures invested into new and improved products and processes are shown below. These expenditures are included in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 2007 2006 2005 R&D Expenditures (in thousands) $ 29,869 $ 25,156 $ 22,928 Percent of Net Sales 1.4 % 1.3 % 1.4 % Working Capital Practices We maintain sufficient inventory to enable us to provide a high level of service to our customers. Our inventory levels, payment terms and return policies are in accordance with general practices associated with the industries in which we operate. Patents and Trademarks We own approximately 2,000 active patent registrations and applications worldwide. We have over 1,500 active trademarks and domain names worldwide, including: Thomas & Betts, T&B, T&B Page 7 of 96 Table of Contents Access, Blackburn, Bowers, Canstrut, Carlon, Catamount, Color-Keyed, Commander, Cyberex, Deltec, Diamond, DuraGard, Elastimold, Emergi-Lite, E-Z-Code, Flex-Cuf, Furse, Hazlux, Iberville, Joslyn, Kindorf, Klik-It, Kold-N-Klose, Lehigh, LRC, Marr, Marrette, Meyer, Ocal, Red-Dot, Reznor, Russellstoll, Sachs, Shamrock, Shield-Kon, Shrink-Kon, Signature Service, Site Light, Snap-N-Seal, Sta-Kon, Star Teck, Steel City, Super Strut, Ty-Duct, Ty-Rap and Union. While we consider our patents, trademarks, and trade dress to be valuable assets, we do not believe that our competitive position is dependent solely on patent or trademark protection, or that any business segment or our operations as a whole is dependent on any individual patent or trademark. However, the Carlon, Color-Keyed, Elastimold, Iberville, Kindorf, Red-Dot, Sta-Kon, Steel City, Superstrut, and Ty-Rap trademarks are important to the Electrical segment; the Meyer trademark is important to the Steel Structures segment; and the Reznor trademark is important to the HVAC segment. In addition, we do not consider any of our individual licenses, franchises or concessions to be material to our business as a whole or to any business segment. Competition Our ability to continue to meet customer needs by enhancing existing products and developing and manufacturing new products is critical to our prominence in our primary market, the electrical products industry. We have robust competition in all areas of our business, and the methods and levels of competition, such as price, service, warranty and product performance, vary among our markets. While no single company competes with us in all of our product lines, various companies compete with us in one or more product lines. Some of these competitors have substantially greater sales and assets and greater access to capital than we do. We believe Thomas & Betts is among the industry leaders in service to its customers. Although we believe that we have specific technological and other advantages over some of our competitors, our competitors’ ability to develop new product offerings with competitive price and performance characteristics could lead to increased downward pressure on the selling prices for some of our products. The abilities of our competitors to enhance their own products, coupled with any unforeseeable changes in customer demand for various products of Thomas & Betts, could affect our overall product mix, pricing, margins, plant utilization levels and asset valuations. We believe that industry consolidation could further increase competitive pressures. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 11,000 full-time employees worldwide. Employees of our foreign subsidiaries comprise approximately 40% of all employees. Approximately 20% of our U.S. and approximately 35% of our worldwide employees are represented by trade unions. We believe our relationships with our employees and trade unions are good. Compliance with Environmental Regulations We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water, as well as the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. We believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of maintaining such compliance will not be material to our financial position. Page 8 of 96 Table of Contents Financial Information About Foreign and U.S. Operations Export sales originating in the U.S. were approximately $62 million in 2007, $37 million in 2006 and $40 million in 2005. For additional financial information about international and U.S. operations, please refer to Note 14 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Page 9 of 96 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that could pose a material risk to the Corporation’s business, its operating results, its financial condition and its ability to execute its business plan, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: Negative economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The success of Thomas & Betts’ business is directly linked to positive economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products. We do business in geographically diverse markets. In 2007, approximately 40% of the Corporation’s net sales were generated outside of the United States. Material adverse changes in economic (including the potential negative impact of higher interest rates and availability of credit on capital spending in the markets we serve) or industry conditions generally or in the specific markets served by Thomas & Betts could have a material adverse effect on the operating results and financial condition of the Corporation. Additionally, an economic slowdown in the U.S. or in Thomas & Betts’ major foreign markets, including Canada and Europe, could reduce the Corporation’s overall net sales. Because these influences are not always foreseeable, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will not be affected by these occurrences. A significant reduction in the supply of commodity raw materials could materially disrupt our business and rising and volatile costs for commodity raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In recent years we have experienced rising and, at times, volatile costs for commodity raw materials (steel, aluminum, copper, zinc, resins and rubber compounds) and energy. Additionally, increased worldwide demand for steel has, at times, caused the availability of steel to be a concern and resin supply has been disrupted by natural disasters. Any significant accidents, labor disputes, fires, severe weather, floods or other difficulties encountered by our principal suppliers could result in production delays or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis. The Corporation may also not be able to fully offset in the future the effects of rising and at times volatile costs for commodity raw materials and energy through price increases for its products, productivity improvements or other cost reductions. Significant changes in customer demand due to increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. As Thomas & Betts works to enhance its product offerings, its competitors will most likely continue to improve their products and will likely develop new offerings with competitive price and performance characteristics. Because of the intensity of the competition in the product areas and geographic markets that it serves, we could experience increased downward pressure on the selling prices for certain of our products. Additionally, enhanced product offerings by competitors, coupled with any unforeseeable significant changes in customer demand for various products of Thomas & Betts, could impact overall product mix, pricing, margins, plant utilization levels and asset valuations, thereby having a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Page 10 of 96 Table of Contents Deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A significant asset included in the Corporation’s working capital is accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, the Corporation’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. A significant deterioration in the economy could have an adverse effect on the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. Although the Corporation is not dependent on any one customer for more than 10% of its sales, deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers at the same time could have a material adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. We engage in acquisitions and may encounter difficulty in integrating these businesses. We have pursued and will continue to seek potential acquisitions and other strategic investments to complement and expand our existing businesses within our core markets. In 2007, we completed four strategic acquisitions. The success of these transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate and operate these businesses. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions, and, therefore, we may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits anticipated from a particular acquisition. Unforeseen adverse regulatory, environmental, monetary and other governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Thomas & Betts is subject to governmental regulations throughout the world. Unforeseen changes in these governmental regulations could reduce our profitability. Namely, significant changes in monetary or fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad could result in currency fluctuations, including fluctuations in the Canadian dollar, Euro and British pound, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our net sales, costs and expenses. Furthermore, significant changes in any number of governmental policies could create trade restrictions, patent enforcement issues, adverse tax rate changes and changes to tax treatment of items such as tax credits, withholding taxes and transfer pricing. These changes might limit our ability to sell products in certain markets, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our operations are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation and handling of waste. Thomas & Betts is also subject to laws relating to occupational health and safety. The operation of manufacturing plants involves a high level of susceptibility in these areas, and there is no assurance that we will not incur material environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities in the future. Moreover, expectations of remediation expenses could be affected by, and potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with, environmental regulations and health and safety laws that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Future remediation technology advances could adversely impact expectations of remediation expenses. Unfavorable litigation outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are and may in the future be party to legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability patents and contractual disputes. Given the inherent uncertainty of Page 11 of 96 Table of Contents litigation, we cannot offer any assurance that existing litigation or future adverse developments may not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Inability to access capital markets may adversely affect our business. Our ability to invest in our businesses and make strategic acquisitions may require access to capital markets. If we are unable to access the capital markets as needed, we could experience a material adverse affect on our business. The Corporation’s facilities or facilities of its customers could be susceptible to natural disasters. Thomas & Betts has operations in approximately 20 countries and sells to customers throughout the world. Should a natural disaster such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flood severely damage a major manufacturing, distribution or headquarters facility of the Corporation, or damage a major facility of one or more of our significant customers or important suppliers, our business could be materially disrupted. Possible inadequate insurance coverage. In accordance with its risk management practices, Thomas & Betts continually reevaluates risks, their potential cost and the cost of minimizing them. To reduce the Corporation’s exposure to material risks, in certain circumstances, we purchase insurance. Certain risks are inherent in the manufacturing of our products and our insurance may not be adequate to cover potential claims against the Corporation involving its products. Thomas & Betts is also exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of products. Although the Corporation maintains liability insurance, management cannot assure that the coverage limits under these insurance programs will be adequate to protect Thomas & Betts against future claims, or that the Corporation can and will maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Terrorist Acts and Acts of War could adversely impact our business and operating results. Terrorist acts and acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors or customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by acts of war and have policy limits for losses caused by terrorist acts. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Page 12 of 96 Table of Contents 