Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that could pose a material risk to the Corporation’s business, its operating results and financial condition and its ability to execute its business plan, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: Negative economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We do business in geographically diverse markets. In 2005, approximately 33% of the Corporation’s net sales were generated outside of the United States. The success of Thomas & Betts’ business is directly linked to positive economic conditions in the countries where it sells its products. Material adverse changes in economic (including the potential negative impact of higher interest rates on capital spending in the markets we serve) or industry conditions generally or in the specific markets served by Thomas & Betts could have a material adverse effect on the operating results and financial condition of the Corporation. Additionally, an economic slowdown in the U.S. or in Thomas & Betts’ major foreign markets, including Canada and Europe, could reduce the Corporation’s overall net sales. Because these influences are not always foreseeable, there can be no assurance that the business will not be affected by these occurrences. A significant reduction in the supply of commodity raw materials could materially disrupt our business and rising costs for commodity raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In recent years we have experienced rising costs for commodity raw materials (steel, aluminum, zinc, resins and rubber compounds) and energy. Additionally, the impact of increased worldwide demand for steel and the impact in 2005 of domestic hurricane activity on resins have caused the availability of these raw materials to be a concern. If we are unable to obtain the steel and resins as needed to manufacture products, our business could be materially disrupted. The Corporation may also not be able to fully offset in the future the effects of rising costs for commodity raw materials and energy through price increases for its products, productivity improvements or other cost reductions. Significant changes in customer demand due to increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. As Thomas & Betts works to enhance its product offerings, its competitors will most likely continue to improve their products and will likely develop new offerings with competitive price and performance characteristics. Because of the intensity of the competition in the product areas and geographic markets that it serves, Thomas & Betts could experience increased downward pressure on the selling prices for certain of its products. Additionally, enhanced product offerings by competitors, coupled with any unforeseeable significant changes in customer demand for various products of Thomas & Betts, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s operating results and financial condition and could impact overall product mix, pricing, margins, plant utilization levels and asset valuations. Page 9 of 83 Table of Contents Deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A significant asset included in the Corporation’s working capital is accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, the Corporation’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. A significant deterioration in the economy could have an adverse effect on the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. Although the Corporation is not dependent on any one customer for more than 10% of its sales, deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers at the same time could have a material adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. Unforeseen adverse regulatory, environmental, monetary and other governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Thomas & Betts is subject to governmental regulations throughout the world. Unforeseen changes in these governmental regulations could reduce our profitability. Namely, significant changes in monetary or fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad could result in currency fluctuations, including fluctuations in the Canadian dollar, Euro and British pound, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our net sales, costs and expenses. Furthermore, significant changes in any number of governmental policies could create trade restrictions, patent enforcement issues, adverse tax rate changes and changes to tax treatment of items such as tax credits, withholding taxes and transfer pricing. These changes might limit our ability to sell products in certain markets, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our operations are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation and handling of waste. Thomas & Betts is also subject to laws relating to occupational health and safety. The operation of manufacturing plants involves a high level of susceptibility in these areas, and there is no assurance that Thomas & Betts will not incur material environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities in the future. Moreover, expectations of remediation expenses could be affected by, and potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with, environmental regulations and health and safety laws that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Future remediation technology advances could adversely impact expectations of remediation expenses. The Corporation’s facilities or facilities of its customers could be susceptible to natural disasters. The Corporation has operations in approximately 20 countries and sells to customers throughout the world. Should a natural disaster such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flood severely damage a major manufacturing, distribution or headquarters facility of the Corporation, or damage a major facility of one or more of our significant customers, our business could be materially disrupted. Possible inadequate insurance coverage. In accordance with its risk management practices, the Corporation continually reevaluates risks, their potential cost and the cost of minimizing them. To reduce the Corporation’s exposure Page 10 of 83 Table of Contents to material risks, in certain circumstances, it purchases insurance. Certain risks are inherent in the manufacturing of the Corporation’s products and the Corporation’s insurance may not be adequate to cover potential claims against it involving its products. The Corporation is also exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of products. Although the Corporation maintains liability insurance, management cannot assure that the coverage limits under these insurance programs will be adequate to protect Thomas & Betts against future claims, or that the Corporation can and will maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Terrorist Acts and Acts of War could adversely impact our business and operating results. Terrorist acts and acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors or customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by acts of war and have policy limits for losses caused by terrorist acts. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Page 11 of 83 Table of Contents 