Risk Factors.” Forward-looking statements contain words such as: • “achieve” • “anticipates” • “intends” • “should” • “expects” • “predict” • “could” • “might” • “will” • “may” • “believes” • other similar expressions These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Many factors could affect our future financial condition or results of operations. Accordingly, actual results, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. We undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statement included in this Report to reflect any future events or circumstances. A reference in this Report to “we”, “our”, “us”, “Thomas & Betts” or the “Corporation” refers to Thomas & Betts Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Page 3 of 96 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Thomas & Betts Corporation is a global leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of essential components used to manage the connection, distribution, transmission and reliability of electrical power in industrial, construction and utility applications. We are also a leading producer of commercial heating and ventilation units used in commercial and industrial buildings and highly engineered steel structures used for utility transmission. We have operations in over 20 countries. Manufacturing, marketing and sales activities are concentrated primarily in North America and Europe. We pursue growth through market penetration, new product development and acquisitions. We sell our products through the following channels: • electrical, utility, telephone, cable, and heating, ventilation and air-conditioning distributors; • mass merchandisers, catalog merchandisers and home improvement centers; and • directly to original equipment manufacturers, utilities and certain end-users. Thomas & Betts was established in 1898 as a sales agency for electrical wires and raceways, and was incorporated and began manufacturing products in New Jersey in 1917. We were reincorporated in Tennessee in 1996. Our corporate offices are maintained at 8155 T&B Boulevard, Memphis, Tennessee 38125, and the telephone number at that address is 901-252-8000. On January 29, 2012, Thomas & Betts Corporation, Swiss-based ABB Ltd (“ABB”) and a wholly owned subsidiary of ABB entered into a merger agreement. At the closing of the merger contemplated by the merger agreement, (i) the Corporation will become a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of ABB, and (ii) each common share of the Corporation will be converted into the right to receive $72.00 in cash (approximately $3.9 billion total purchase consideration), without interest. The closing of the merger is subject to customary conditions, including approval of the shareholders of the Corporation’s common stock and expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under antitrust laws. There is no assurance that the merger will be completed in a timely manner or at all. Available Information Our internet address is www.tnb.com where interested parties can find our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments, if any, to those reports. These materials are free of charge and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We will provide electronic or paper copies of our filings free of charge upon request. General Segment Information We classify our products into the following business segments based primarily on product lines. Our segments are: • Electrical, • Steel Structures, and • Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning (“HVAC”). The majority of our products, especially those sold in the Electrical segment, have region-specific standards and are sold mostly in North America or in other regions sharing North American electrical codes. No customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales for 2011, 2010 or 2009. Page 4 of 96 Table of Contents Electrical Segment Our Electrical segment’s markets include industrial MRO (maintenance, repair and operations) and OEM (original equipment manufacturers), construction and utility markets. This segment’s sales are concentrated primarily in North America and Europe. The Electrical segment typically experiences modest seasonal increases in sales during the second and third quarters reflecting the construction season. Net sales for the Electrical segment for the past three years were: 2011 2010 2009 Segment Sales (in thousands) $ 1,905,221 $ 1,678,645 $ 1,488,334 Percent of Consolidated Net Sales 82.9 % 83.7 % 81.2 % The Electrical segment designs, manufactures and markets thousands of different connectors, components and other products for industrial, construction, and utility applications. We have a market-leading position for many of our products. Products in the Electrical segment include: • fittings and accessories; • fastening products, such as plastic and metallic ties for bundling wire, and flexible tubing; • connectors, such as compression and mechanical connectors for high-current power and grounding applications; • indoor and outdoor switch and outlet boxes, covers and accessories; • floor boxes; • metal framing used as structural supports for conduits, cable tray and electrical enclosures; • emergency and hazardous lighting; • utility distribution connectors and switchgear; • power quality equipment and services; and • other products, including insulation products, wire markers, and application tooling products. These products are sold under a variety of well-known brand names, such as Adaptaflex®, Carlon®, Color-Keyed®, Cyberex®, Elastimold®, Emergi-Lite®, Furse®, Harnessflex®, Homac®, Iberville®, Joslyn Hi-Voltage®, Kopex®, Kindorf®, Marrette®, Ocal®, PMA®, Red Dot®, Sta-Kon®, Steel City®, Superstrut®, T&B® and Ty-Rap®. Demand for electrical products follows general economic conditions and is sensitive to activity in construction markets, industrial production levels and spending by utilities for replacement, expansion and efficiency improvement. The segment’s product lines are predominantly sold through major distributor chains, independent distributors and to retail home centers and hardware outlets. They are also sold directly to original equipment manufacturers, utilities and telecommunications companies. We have strong relationships with our distributors as a result of the breadth and quality of our product lines, our market-leading service programs, our strong history of product innovation, and the high degree of brand-name recognition for our products among end-users. Steel Structures Segment Our Steel Structures segment designs, manufactures and markets highly engineered steel transmission structures. These products are primarily sold to the following types of end-users: • investor-owned utilities; • cooperatives, which purchase power from utilities and manage its distribution to end-users; and Page 5 of 96 Table of Contents • municipal utilities. These products are marketed primarily under the Meyer®, Lehigh® and Thomas & Betts® brand names. Net sales for the Steel Structures segment for the past three years were: 2011 2010 2009 Segment Sales (in thousands) $ 250,785 $ 219,897 $ 234,462 Percent of Consolidated Net Sales 10.9 % 11.0 % 12.8 % HVAC Segment Our HVAC segment designs, manufactures and markets heating, ventilation and air conditioning products for commercial and industrial buildings. Products in this segment include: • gas, oil and electric unit heaters; • gas-fired duct furnaces; • indirect and direct gas-fired make-up air; • infrared heaters; and • evaporative cooling and heat recovery products. These products are sold primarily under the Reznor® and AmbiRad® brand names through HVAC, mechanical and refrigeration distributors throughout North America and Europe. Demand for HVAC products tends to be higher when these regions are experiencing cold weather and, as a result, HVAC typically has higher sales in the first and fourth quarters. To reduce the impact of seasonality on operations, the segment offers an off-season sales promotional program with its distributors. Net sales for the HVAC segment for the past three years were: 2011 2010 2009 Segment Sales (in thousands) $ 141,525 $ 105,824 $ 109,912 Percent of Consolidated Net Sales 6.2 % 5.3 % 6.0 % Manufacturing and Distribution We employ advanced processes for manufacturing quality products. Our manufacturing processes include high-speed stamping, precision molding, machining, plating, pressing, welding and automated assembly. Our internal processes utilize lean manufacturing techniques designed to reduce waste and improve operating efficiencies in our facilities. We also make extensive use of computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) software and equipment to link product engineering with our manufacturing facilities. Additionally, we utilize other advanced equipment and techniques in the manufacturing and distribution process, including computer software for scheduling, material requirements planning, shop floor control, capacity planning, and the warehousing and shipment of products. Our products have historically enjoyed a reputation for quality in the markets in which they are sold. To ensure we maintain these high quality standards, all facilities embrace quality programs, and approximately 80% meet either ISO 9001 2000 or ISO 9001 2008 standards as of December 31, 2011, with future certifications to be performed under ISO 9001 2008 standards as applicable. Additionally, we have implemented quality control processes in our design, manufacturing, delivery and other operations in order to further improve product quality and customer service levels. Page 6 of 96 Table of Contents Raw Materials We purchase a wide variety of raw materials for the manufacture of our products including steel, aluminum, zinc, copper, resins and rubber compounds. Sources for raw materials and component parts are well established and, with the exception of steel and certain resins, are sufficiently numerous to avoid serious future interruptions of production in the event that current suppliers are unable to sufficiently meet our needs. However, we could encounter manufacturing disruptions in each of our segments from interruptions by steel and resin suppliers. In addition, we could encounter price increases that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. Research and Development We have a long-standing reputation for innovation and value based upon our ability to develop products that meet the needs of the marketplace. Each of our business segments maintain research, development and engineering capabilities intended to directly respond to specific market needs. Research, development and engineering expenditures invested into new and improved products and processes are shown below. These expenditures are included in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 2011 2010 2009 R&D Expenditures (in thousands) $ 37,374 $ 35,712 $ 33,545 Percent of Consolidated Net Sales 1.6 % 1.8 % 1.8 % Working Capital Practices We maintain sufficient inventory to enable us to provide a high level of service to our customers. Our inventory levels, payment terms and return policies are in accordance with general practices associated with the industries in which we operate. Patents, Trademarks and Domain Names We own approximately 2,000 active patent registrations and applications worldwide. We have over 1,500 active trademark registrations and applications worldwide and domain names, including: Thomas & Betts, T&B, T&B Access, Adaptaflex, AmbiRad, Blackburn, Canstrut, Carlon, Catamount, Color-Keyed, Cyberex, Deltec, DuraGard, Elastimold, Emergi-Lite, E-Z-Code, Flex-Cuf, Furse, Harnessflex, Hazlux, Homac, Iberville, Joslyn Hi-Voltage, JT Packard, Kindorf, Kopex, Lehigh, Marr, Marrette, Meyer, Ocal, PMA, Red Dot, Reznor, Russellstoll, Shield-Kon, Shrink-Kon, Signature Service, Site Light, Sta-Kon, Star Teck, Steel City, Superstrut, Ty-Duct, Ty-Rap and Zip-Box. While we consider our patents, trademarks, domain names and trade dress to be valuable assets, we do not believe that our competitive position is dependent solely on intellectual property, or that any business segment or our operations as a whole is dependent solely on intellectual property alone. However, the Carlon, Color-Keyed, Elastimold, Iberville, Kindorf, Ocal, Sta-Kon, Steel City, Superstrut, T&B and Ty-Rap trademarks are important to the Electrical segment; the Meyer trademark is important to the Steel Structures segment; and the Reznor trademark is important to the HVAC segment. In addition, we do not consider any of our individual licenses, franchises or concessions to be material to our business as a whole or to any business segment. Page 7 of 96 Table of Contents Competition Our ability to continue to meet customer needs by enhancing existing products and developing and manufacturing new products is critical to our prominence in our primary market, the electrical products industry. We have robust competition in all areas of our business, and the methods and levels of competition, such as price, service, warranty and product performance, vary among our markets. While no single company competes with us in all of our product lines, various companies compete with us in one or more product lines. Some of these competitors have substantially greater sales and assets and greater access to capital than we do. We believe Thomas & Betts is among the industry leaders in service to its customers. Although we believe that we have specific technological and other advantages over some of our competitors, our competitors’ ability to develop new product offerings with competitive price and performance characteristics could lead to increased downward pressure on the selling prices for our products. The abilities of our competitors to enhance their own products, coupled with any unforeseeable changes in customer demand for various products of Thomas & Betts, could affect our overall product mix, pricing, margins, plant utilization levels and asset valuations. We believe that industry consolidation could further increase competitive pressures. Employees As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 9,400 full-time employees worldwide. Employees of our foreign subsidiaries comprise approximately 50% of all employees. Approximately 15% of our U.S. and approximately 45% of our non-U.S. employees are represented by trade unions. We believe our relationships with our employees and trade unions are good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following persons are executive officers of Thomas & Betts, and are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Dominic J. Pileggi, 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Pileggi was elected Chief Executive Officer in January 2004, and Chairman of the Board effective January 2006. Mr. Pileggi has held several executive positions with the Corporation, including President and Chief Operating Officer from 2003 to 2004, and Senior Vice President and Group President – Electrical from 2000 to 2003. He also held various executive positions with Thomas & Betts from 1979 to 1995. Mr. Pileggi was employed by Viasystems Group, Inc., as Executive Vice President from 1998 to 2000 and President – EMS Division of Viasystems in 2000. From 1995 to 1998, he also held various executive positions with Casco Plastic, Inc. and Jordan Telecommunications. Charles L. Treadway, 46 President and Chief Operating Officer Mr. Treadway was elected President and Chief Operating Officer in February 2011. Previously, he held the position of Senior Vice President and Group President – Electrical from March 2009 to 2011. Mr. Treadway was employed by Schneider Electric from 2006 to 2009 where he led the company’s Custom Sensors and Technology business. Prior to that time, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Prettl International, a subsidiary of German-based Prettl GMBH from 2001 to 2005 and he was President of Groupo Tesa Mexico, a division of Yale Security (Americas), Inc. from 1999 to 2001. Page 8 of 96 Table of Contents William E. Weaver, Jr., 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Weaver was elected Chief Financial Officer in October 2009. Previously, he held the position of Vice President – Controller from November 2008 to October 2009. Mr. Weaver was employed by First Horizon Home Loans/MetLife Home Loans from 2006 to 2008. Prior to that time, he was a partner with KPMG LLP from 2002 to 2006 and held various positions including partner with Arthur Andersen LLP from 1984 to 2002. Imad Hajj, 51 Senior Vice President – International and Operational Development Mr. Hajj was elected Senior Vice President – International and Operational Development in February 2011. Previously, he held several executive positions within the Corporation, including Senior Vice President – Global Operations 2008 to 2011 and Vice President and Chief Development Officer 2006 to 2008. He also held the position of President – HVAC Division dating back to 2004. Between 1983 and 2004, Mr. Hajj held executive and managerial positions in manufacturing, supply chain, information technology and global electrical manufacturing operations. In addition, he has served as President of the Company’s European Middle East and Asia business. Peggy P. Gann, 63 Senior Vice President – Human Resources and Administration Ms. Gann was elected Senior Vice President – Human Resources and Administration in May 2010. Ms. Gann was employed by Schneider Electric from 1989 to 2008 where she led the company’s human resources, communication and administration functions for the North American Division. Prior to that time, she held various human resources leadership positions at Johns Manville Corporation from 1966 to 1989. J.N. Raines, 68 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Mr. Raines was elected Vice President – General Counsel & Secretary in December 2001. Prior to that time, he was a partner of the law firm of Glankler Brown PLLC from 1976 to 2001. He has also served as an assistant United States attorney for the Western District of Tennessee and as a trial lawyer for the anti-trust division of the U.S. Department of Justice. Stanley P. Locke, 52 Vice President – Business Development and Strategic Planning Mr. Locke was elected Vice President – Business Development and Strategic Planning in November 2008. Previously, he held the positions of Vice President – Controller and Vice President – Corporate Controller from 2004 to 2008. Prior to that time, he held various positions in finance and corporate development with Sara Lee Corporation, beginning in 1985, as well as with a consulting advisory firm from 2003 to 2004. Compliance with Environmental Regulations We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water, as well as the handling and disposal of solid and Page 9 of 96 Table of Contents hazardous wastes. We believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of maintaining such compliance will not be material to our financial position. Financial Information About Foreign and U.S. Operations Export sales originating in the U.S. were approximately $76 million in 2011, $74 million in 2010, and $55 million in 2009. For additional financial information about international and U.S. operations, please refer to Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. NYSE Certifications Our CEO certified to the New York Stock Exchange in 2011 that we were in compliance with the NYSE listing standards. Our CEO and CFO have executed the certification required by section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which is contained herein as an exhibit to this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that could pose a material risk to our business, its operating results, its financial condition and its ability to execute its business plan, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: Negative economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The success of Thomas & Betts’ business is directly linked to positive economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products. We do business in geographically diverse markets. In 2011, approximately 40% of our net sales were generated outside of the United States. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect demand for products in each of our business segments, thereby having a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, these conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. Finally, a decline in economic activity could result in adverse changes to our current stock market-related fundamentals and current projected future operating results that are used to assess asset valuations (including goodwill and other intangible assets). Such revisions could lead to potentially significant financial impairment charges for these assets in future periods. Material adverse changes in economic (including further financial instability in Europe, the potential negative impact of higher interest rates and availability of credit on capital spending in the markets we serve) or industry conditions generally or in the specific markets served by Thomas & Betts could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A significant reduction in the supply of commodity raw materials could materially disrupt our business and rising and volatile costs for commodity raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In recent years, we have experienced rising and, at times, volatile costs for commodity raw materials (steel, aluminum, copper, zinc, resins and rubber compounds) and energy. Additionally, increased worldwide demand for steel has, at times, caused the availability of steel to be a concern, and resin supply has, at times, been disrupted by natural disasters. Any significant accidents, labor disputes, fires, severe weather, floods or other difficulties encountered by our principal suppliers could result in Page 10 of 96 Table of Contents production delays or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis. We may also not be able to fully offset in the future the effects of rising and at times volatile costs for commodity raw materials and energy through price increases for our products, productivity improvements or other cost reductions. Significant changes in customer demand due to increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. As Thomas & Betts works to enhance its product offerings, its competitors will most likely continue to improve their products and will likely develop new offerings with competitive price and performance characteristics. Because of the intensity of the competition in the product areas and geographic markets that we serve, we could experience increased downward pressure on the selling prices for certain of our products. Additionally, enhanced product offerings by competitors, coupled with any unforeseeable significant changes in customer demand for products of Thomas & Betts, could impact overall product mix, pricing, margins, plant utilization levels and asset valuations, thereby having a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Potential work stoppages at our union facilities. A work stoppage could occur at our unionized facilities as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements. Although we believe our relationships with labor unions are good, a work stoppage or interruption of production at one of our unionized facilities due to a labor dispute could substantially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A significant asset included in our working capital is accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. A significant deterioration in the economy could have an adverse effect on the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. Although we are not dependent on any one customer for more than 10% of our sales, deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers at the same time could have a material adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. Unforeseen adverse regulatory, environmental, monetary and other governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Thomas & Betts is subject to governmental regulations and policies throughout the world. Unforeseen changes in these governmental regulations and policies could reduce our profitability. Namely, significant changes in monetary or fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad could result in currency fluctuations, including fluctuations in the Canadian dollar, Euro and British pound, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our net sales, costs and expenses. Furthermore, significant changes in any number of governmental policies could create trade restrictions, patent enforcement issues, adverse tax rate changes and changes to tax treatment of items such as tax credits, withholding taxes and transfer pricing. These changes might limit our ability to sell products in certain markets, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Page 11 of 96 Table of Contents In addition, our operations are subject to or could become subject to, international, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including emissions and discharges of pollutants (including green house gases) into the air, soil and water and the generation and handling of waste. Thomas & Betts is also subject to laws relating to occupational health and safety. The operation of manufacturing plants involves a high level of susceptibility in these areas, and there is no assurance that we will not incur material environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities in the future. Moreover, expectations of remediation expenses could be affected by, and potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with, environmental regulations and health and safety laws that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Future remediation technology advances could adversely impact expectations of remediation expenses. Unfavorable litigation outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are and may in the future be party to legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability, intellectual property and contractual disputes. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we cannot offer any assurance that existing litigation or future adverse developments may not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Inability to access capital markets may adversely impact our business. Our ability to invest in our businesses and make strategic acquisitions may require access to capital markets. If we are unable to access the capital markets as needed, we could experience a material adverse impact on our business. Our facilities or facilities of our customers could be susceptible to natural disasters. Thomas & Betts has operations in over 20 countries and sells to customers throughout the world. Should a natural disaster such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flood severely damage a major manufacturing, distribution or headquarters facility of Thomas & Betts, or damage a major facility of one or more of our significant customers or important suppliers, our business could be materially disrupted. Possible inadequate insurance coverage. In accordance with its risk management practices, Thomas & Betts continually reevaluates risks, their potential cost and the cost of minimizing them. To reduce the Corporation’s exposure to material risks, in certain circumstances, we purchase insurance. Certain risks are inherent in the manufacturing of our products and our insurance may not be adequate to cover potential claims against us involving our products. Thomas & Betts is also exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of products. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot assure that the coverage limits under these insurance programs will be adequate to protect Thomas & Betts against future claims, or that we will be able to obtain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Terrorist Acts and Acts of War could adversely impact our business and operating results. Terrorist acts and acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors or customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by Page 12 of 96 Table of Contents actions against the United States. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by acts of war and have policy limits for losses caused by terrorist acts. Risks and uncertainties related to the Corporation’s operations in Mexico could negatively impact the Corporation’s operating results. The Corporation has extensive manufacturing operations located in Mexico, a country in which there are potential risks related to geo-political events, political instability, corruption, economic volatility, drug cartel and gang-related violence, social and ethnic unrest, enforcement of property rights, governmental regulations, and public safety and security, among others. As in many developing markets, there are also uncertainties in how local law is applied, including areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. As a result, events could occur in Mexico, which are beyond the Corporation’s control, which could restrict the Corporation’s ability to operate its manufacturing locations in Mexico or significantly reduce the Corporation’s ability to transport products manufactured at these locations out of Mexico. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. Failure to complete the proposed merger with ABB could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. On January 29, 2012, we entered into a merger agreement with ABB under which we would become a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of ABB. If completed, the merger would result in each outstanding share of our common stock being converted into the right to receive $72.00 in cash. However, there is no assurance that our shareholders will approve the merger agreement, and there is no assurance that the other conditions to the completion of the merger will be satisfied. If the merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock; • we may be required to pay ABB a termination fee of $116 million if the merger is terminated under certain circumstances; and • matters relating to the merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which would otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as an independent company. There can be no assurance that the risks described above will not materialize, and if any of them do, they may adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price. Pending litigation could prevent or delay the closing of the merger or otherwise negatively impact our business and operations. Shortly after the announcement of the merger, two putative class action lawsuits challenging the merger were filed in the Chancery Court for Shelby County, 20th Judicial District, for State of Tennessee, against Thomas & Betts Corporation, ABB, Edison Acquisition Corp. and the individual members of Thomas & Betts’ Board of Directors. The complaints generally allege, among other things, that, in connection with merger, the members of the Thomas & Betts Board of Directors breached their fiduciary duties owed to Thomas & Betts’ shareholders, and that Thomas & Betts, ABB and Edison Acquisition Corp. aided and abetted such breaches of fiduciary duties. The complaints generally seek, among other things, declaratory and injunctive relief, preliminary injunctive relief prohibiting or delaying the defendants from consummating the merger, and other forms of equitable relief. It is Page 13 of 96 Table of Contents possible that additional lawsuits may be filed against us asserting similar or different claims. There is no assurance that we or any of the other defendants will be successful in the outcome of the pending or any potential future lawsuits. For more detailed information concerning this litigation, see Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 