Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. 7 We operate in a very competitive environment that could negatively impact our revenue and margins. In the printing services segment, consolidation within the graphic arts industry has continued during the last few years. This trend has resulted in fewer competitors, creating several competitors that are larger than we are, with broader product offerings. The major competitive factors in our printing services segment are quality of finished products, time-to-market and distribution capabilities, ongoing customer service, price, availability of time on equipment and schedule flexibility. The printing services segment has also experienced condolidation in its customer base. The consolidation of customers within our markets has resulted in greater competitive pricing pressures and the potential for increased volume solicitation as customers reduce the number of vendors they use. In recent years, additional capacity and competition from printing companies in lower cost countries also has increased, particularly from book printers in Asia. In addition, seasonal excess capacity in the domestic printing industry has also resulted in lower unit prices. Increased competition could result in our having to reduce the prices we charge for our services or incurring reduced revenue. The major competitive factors in our supply-chain management services segment are customer service, price, location relative to customer manufacturing sites, quality of information technology and the ability to develop creative and innovative solutions for customer manufacturing, fulfillment and distribution needs. In recent years, enhanced competition along with continuing pressure from customers to reduce costs, reduce time to market and improve quality of service has led to increased pricing pressures. In addition, operating margins in the supply-chain management services segment continue to be at a level which may be higher than can be sustained in the long-term, and may decrease in the future based on competitive conditions as well as the expectation of a lesser proportion of value-added content in the product mix. We are dependent in part on our customers continuing to outsource non-core activities, and we are susceptible to being negatively impacted by a decline in the technology market given the number of technology customers served by our supply-chain management services segment. Trends in outsourcing non-core activities by our existing or potential customers could have an impact on our future revenue, particularly in the literature management and book operating units of the printing services segment, as well as the supply-chain management services segment. Increased outsourcing activity has resulted in higher revenue in these areas of our business in recent years. Any change in those trends could negatively impact revenue growth in these portions of our business. Our supply-chain management services segment primarily serves global technology customers. The concentration of customers within one industry creates increased risk if there is a significant decline in this industry. In addition, in this segment we have a high concentration of revenue from several large customers. Changes in the status of these customers could have a significant impact on our future revenue and profitability. We have a contract with Hewlett-Packard Company in the supply-chain management services segment that runs through 2006, subject to one-year extensions pursuant to an evergreen provision. Pursuant to this evergreen clause, the contract was most recently extended through 2006. Revenue from Hewlett-Packard Company under this agreement totaled approximately $135 million in 2005. The loss or the modification of terms of this contract could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We are susceptible to being negatively impacted by increasing costs, including paper prices and fuel costs. Paper pricing has had a significant impact on revenue in our printing services segment in prior years. Paper prices are influenced by world pulp prices, capacity utilization in the worldwide paper industry and the value of the dollar in comparison to other currencies. Paper prices increased by an average of 9% in 2005 and contributed approximately one-third of the 10% increase in our revenue in the printing services segment in 2005. Increases in fuel costs, especially resulting from increased costs to operate our production facilities, could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our operating results. 8 We could be negatively impacted by strikes or other work stoppages by our employees. We employ approximately 800 persons who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If our unionized employees were to engage in a concerted strike or other work stoppage, or if our other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a disruption of operations, higher labor costs or both. Our earnings could be negatively impacted if we are unable to implement successfully our productivity enhancing projects. We have initiated a number of cost reduction initiatives that have reduced expenses in recent years, and management expects that these initiatives will result in cost savings in coming years. If we are unable to continue to deliver cost savings from these initiatives, it could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Our supply-chain management services business operates in various international locations. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk and risks associated with political and economic instability in international areas in which we conduct business. We derive a significant portion of our revenue in the supply-chain management sector from operations in locations outside the United States. As a result of this international presence, we are subject to potential political and economic instability. In addition, some foreign jurisdictions in which we operate use a local currency other than the United States dollar. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can result in increases or decreases in our revenue and operating earnings for these jurisdictions. We are subject to environmental remediation and compliance risks that could adversely affect our earnings. We have environmental compliance programs primarily for the control of air quality, groundwater quality, disposal of waste material and all aspects of the work environment involving employee health. We also incur ongoing costs in monitoring compliance with environmental laws concerning the disposal of waste materials and the remediation of sites previously used for the disposal of waste materials. Any costs, claims or penalties that may be incurred or assessed under environmental laws, beyond any reserves we have already provided, will have an adverse effect upon our operations and consolidated financial position. Our business is subject to shifts in global economic conditions and could be adversely affected by a decline in the global economy. Global economic conditions have the potential to impact our financial results significantly. Within the printing services segment, a change in economic conditions can impact many areas of spending, including government, business and individual spending. These changes can have a direct impact on the amount of print business available to us. Examples of the changes in spending that could affect our financial results include: • Reductions or increases in state government spending on education leads to a corresponding decrease or increase in the demand for educational materials, which are produced by our book business unit. • Reductions or increases in business spending on advertising impact advertising page counts in magazines, and the volume of direct marketing materials. These changes can affect results in our publication, direct marketing and catalog business units. Within our supply-chain management services segment, a change in economic conditions that influences individual or business spending on technology has the potential to affect significantly our major customers in the technology market, which could impact our financial performance by lowering the demand of those customers for our services. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 