risk factors could materially affect the company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the accuracy of any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Volatility of Oil and Gas Prices Prices for crude oil and natural gas are highly volatile and extremely sensitive to the respective supply/demand relationship for crude oil and natural gas. High demand for crude oil and natural gas, reductions in supplies and/or low inventory levels for these resources, as well as any perceptions about future supply interruptions can cause prices for crude oil and natural gas to rise. Conversely, low demand for crude oil and natural gas, increases in supplies and/or increases in crude oil and natural gas inventories can cause prices for crude oil and natural gas to decrease. In addition, global military, political, and economic events, including civil unrest in the oil producing and exporting countries of the Middle East and North Africa, have historically contributed to crude oil and natural gas price volatility. Factors that affect the supply of crude oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following: global demand for hydrocarbons; the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) ability to control crude oil production levels and pricing, as well as, the level of production by non-OPEC countries; sanctions imposed by the U.S., the European Union, or other governments against oil producing countries; political and economic uncertainties (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations); advances in exploration and field development technologies; increased availability of shale gas and other non-traditional energy resources: significant weather conditions; and governmental policies/restrictions placed on exploration and production of natural resources. Prolonged material downturns in crude oil and natural gas prices and/or perceptions of long-term lower commodity prices can negatively impact the development plans of exploration and production companies given the long-term nature of large-scale development projects, which would likely result in a corresponding decline in demand for offshore support services, In such event, we could experience a reduction in charter rates and/or utilization rates, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Higher commodity prices, however, do not necessarily translate into increased demand for offshore support services or sustained higher pricing for offshore support vessel services. Increased commodity demand can be satisfied by land-based energy resources and increased demand for offshore support vessel services can be overwhelmed by an increased supply of offshore support vessels resulting from the construction of additional offshore support vessels. Crude oil pricing volatility has increased in recent years as crude oil has emerged into a widely-traded financial asset class. To the extent to speculative trading of crude oil causes excessive crude oil pricing volatility, our results of operations could potentially be negatively impacted if such price volatility affects spending and investment decisions of offshore exploration, development and production companies. Changes in the Level of Capital Spending by Our Customers Demand for our offshore services, and thus our results of operations are highly dependent on the level of spending and investment in regards to offshore exploration, development and production by the companies that operate in the energy industry. The energy industry’s level of capital spending is substantially related to current and expected future demand for hydrocarbons and the prevailing commodity prices of crude oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas. When commodity prices are low, or when our customers believe that they will be low in the future, our customers generally reduce their capital spending budgets for onshore and offshore drilling, exploration and field development. The level of offshore crude oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activity has historically been volatile, and that volatility is likely to continue. 18 Table of Contents Other factors that influence the level of capital spending by our customers that are beyond our control include: worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas; the cost of offshore exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas, which can be affected by environmental regulations; significant weather conditions; technological advances that affect energy production and consumption; the local and international economic and political environment; the technological feasibility and relative cost of developing non-hydrocarbon based energy resources; the relative cost of developing offshore and onshore crude oil and natural gas resources; and the availability and cost of financing. Consolidation of the Company’s Customer Base Oil and natural gas companies, other energy and energy services companies have undergone consolidation, and additional consolidation is possible. Consolidation reduces the number of customers for the company’s equipment, and may negatively affect exploration, development and production activity as consolidated companies focus, at least initially, on increasing efficiency and reducing costs and delay or abandon exploration activity with less promise. Such activity could adversely affect demand for the company’s offshore services. High Level of Competition in the Offshore Marine Service Industry We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could depress charter and utilization rates and adversely affect our financial performance. We compete for business with our competitors on the basis of price; reputation for quality service; quality, suitability and technical capabilities of our vessels and ROVs; availability of vessels and ROVs; safety and efficiency; cost of mobilizing vessels and ROVs from one market to a different market; and national flag preference. In addition, competition in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, local construction, flagging, ownership or control of vessels, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of supplies from local vendors. Loss of a Major Customer We derive a significant amount of revenue from a relatively small number of customers. For the years ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the five largest customers accounted for approximately 45%, 42%, and 43%, respectively, of the company’s total revenues, while the 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 62%, 57%, and 59%, respectively, of our total revenues. While it is normal for our customer base to change over time as our time charter contracts turn over, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if one or more of these customers were to decide to interrupt or curtail their activities, in general, or their activities with us: terminate their contracts with us; fail to renew existing contracts; and/or refuse to award new contracts. Unconventional Crude Oil and Unconventional Natural Gas Can Exert Downward Pricing Pressures on the Price of Crude Oil and Natural Gas The rise in production of unconventional crude oil and gas resources in North America and the commissioning of a number of new large Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) export facilities around the world are, at least to date, primarily contributing to an over-supplied natural gas market. While production of crude oil and natural gas from unconventional sources is still a relatively small portion of the worldwide crude oil and natural gas production, production from unconventional resources is increasing because improved drilling efficiencies are lowering the costs of extraction. There is an oversupply of natural gas inventories in the United States in part due to the increased development of unconventional crude oil and natural gas resources. Prolonged increases in the worldwide supply of natural gas, whether from conventional or unconventional sources, will likely continue to weigh on natural gas prices. A prolonged period of low natural gas prices would likely have a negative impact on development plans of exploration and production companies (at least in regards to development plans primarily targeting natural gas), which in turn, may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services. This effect could be particularly acute in our Americas segments, specifically our shallow water U.S. GOM operations, which is more oriented towards natural gas than crude oil production, and therefore more sensitive to the changes in the market pricing for natural gas than to changes in the market pricing of crude oil. 19 Table of Contents Challenging Macroeconomic Conditions Uncertainty about future global economic market conditions makes it challenging to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. The success of our business is both directly and indirectly dependent upon conditions in the global financial and credit markets that are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Uncertain economic conditions may lead our customers to postpone capital spending in response to tighter credit and reductions in our customers’ income or asset values. Similarly, when lenders and institutional investors reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to corporate and other industrial borrowers, the liquidity and financial condition of our customers can be adversely impacted. These factors may also adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative effect on our business, revenues and profitability. Prolonged material downturns in crude oil and natural gas prices can negatively affect the development plans of exploration and production companies. In addition, a prolonged recession may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services and a reduction in charter rates and/or utilization rates, which would have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Potential Overcapacity in the Offshore Marine Industry Over the past decade, as offshore exploration and production activities increasingly focused on deepwater well exploration, field development and production, offshore service companies, such as ours, constructed specialized offshore vessels that are capable of supporting complex deepwater and deep well (defined by well depth rather than water depth) projects that are generally located in challenging environments. During this time, construction of offshore vessels increased significantly in order to meet customer requirements. Excess offshore support vessel capacity usually exerts downward pressure on charter day rates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed vessels enter the worldwide offshore support vessel market and also when vessels migrate between markets. While the company is committed to the construction of additional vessels, it has also sold and/or scrapped a significant number of vessels over the last several years. A discussion about the aging of the company’s fleet, which has necessitated the company’s new vessel construction programs, appears in the “Vessel Count, Dispositions, Acquisitions and Construction Programs” section of Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The offshore support vessel market has approximately 450 new-build offshore support vessels (PSVs and AHTS vessels only), under construction as of March 31, 2014, which are expected to be delivered to the worldwide offshore support vessel market primarily over the next three years, according to IHS-Petrodata. The current worldwide fleet of these classes of vessels is estimated at approximately 3,100 vessels, according to the same source. An increase in vessel capacity could result in increased competition in the company’s industry which may have the effect of lowering charter rates and utilization rates, which, in turn, would result in lower revenues to the company. In addition, the provisions of the Shipping Act restricting engagement of U.S. coastwise trade to vessels controlled by U.S. citizens may from time to time be circumvented by foreign competitors that seek to engage in trade reserved for vessels controlled by U.S. citizens and otherwise qualifying for coastwise trade. A repeal, suspension or significant modification of the Shipping Act, or the administrative erosion of its benefits, permitting vessels that are either foreign-flagged, foreign-built, foreign-owned, foreign-controlled or foreign- operated to engage in the U.S. coastwise trade, could also result in excess vessel capacity and increased competition especially for our vessels that operate in North America. Vessel Construction and Maintenance The company has a number of vessels currently under construction, and it may construct additional vessels in response to current and future market conditions. In addition, the company routinely engages shipyards to drydock vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance services. Construction projects and drydockings are subject to risks of delays and cost overruns, resulting from shortages and/or delivery delays in regards to equipment, materials and skilled labor, including third-party service technicians. In 20 Table of Contents addition, the cost, timing and duration of drydockings and repairs and maintenance can be negatively impacted by lack of shipyard availability, unforeseen design and engineering problems, work stoppages, weather, financial, labor and other difficulties at shipyards, including the inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals. A significant delay in either construction or drydockings of vessels could negatively impact on our ability to fulfill contractual commitments. Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction could also adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The demand for vessels currently under construction may also diminish from levels originally anticipated. If the company fails to obtain favorable contracts for newly constructed vessels, such failure could have a negative impact on the company’s revenues and profitability. Difficult economic market conditions and/or prolonged distress in credit and capital markets may also hamper the ability of shipyards to meet their scheduled deliveries of new vessels or the ability of the company to renew its fleet through new vessel construction or acquisitions. In addition, there is a risk of insolvency of the shipyards that construct, repair or drydock our vessels, which could adversely affect our new construction or repair programs, and consequently, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Operating Internationally We operate in various regions throughout the world, which exposes us to many risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States, some of which have recently become more pronounced. Our customary risks of operating internationally include political and economic instability within the host country; possible vessel seizures or nationalization of assets and other governmental actions by the host country (please refer to Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note (12) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our Venezuelan operations regarding vessel seizures and Item 1 and Note (12) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our Sonatide joint venture in Angola), including enforcement of customs, immigration or other laws that are not well developed or consistently enforced; foreign government regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local competitors; an inability to recruit, retain or obtain work visas for managers of international operations; difficulties or delays in collecting customer and other accounts receivable; changing taxation policies; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; foreign currency revaluations and devaluations; restrictions on converting and/or repatriating foreign currencies; and import/export quotas and restrictions or other trade barriers, most of which are beyond the control of the company. The company is also subject to acts of piracy and kidnappings that put its assets and personnel at risk. The increase in the level of these criminal or terrorist acts over the last several years has been well-publicized. As a marine services company that operates in offshore, coastal or tidal waters, the company is particularly vulnerable to these kinds of unlawful activities. Although the company takes what it considers to be prudent measures to protect its personnel and assets in markets that present these risks, it has confronted these kinds of incidents in the past, and there can be no assurance it will not be subjected to them in the future. The continued threat of terrorist activity, other acts of war or hostility and civil unrest have significantly increased the risk of political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which the company operates. It is possible that further acts of terrorism or civil unrest may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad, and such acts of terrorism or civil unrest could be directed against properties and personnel of U.S. headquartered companies such as ours. To date, the company has not experienced any material adverse effects on its results of operations and financial condition as a result of terrorism, political instability, civil unrest or war. Control of Risks Inherent in Acquiring Businesses Acquisitions have been and we believe will continue to be, an element of our business strategy. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on terms favorable to us in the future. We may be required to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. Such additional debt service requirements may impose a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully consolidate the operations and assets of 21 Table of Contents any acquired business with our own business. Acquisitions may not perform as expected when the transaction was consummated and may be dilutive to our overall operating results. In addition, our management may not be able to effectively manage a substantially larger business or successfully operate a new line of business. Entry into New Lines of Business Historically, the company’s operations and acquisitions focused primarily on offshore marine vessel services for the oil and gas industry. The company has recently expanded its capability to provide subsea services through the acquisition of specialized employees and ROVs. The company may expand its subsea capabilities further and enter into additional lines of business. Entry into, or further development of, lines of business in which the company has not historically operated may expose us to business and operational risks that are different from those we have experienced historically. Our management may not be able to effectively manage these additional risks or implement successful business strategies in new lines of business. Additionally, our competitors in these lines of business may possess substantially greater operational knowledge, resources and experience than the company. Doing Business through Joint Venture Operations The company operates in several foreign areas through a joint venture with a local company, in some cases as a result of local laws requiring local company ownership. While the joint venture partner may provide local knowledge and experience, entering into joint ventures often requires us to surrender a measure of control over the assets and operations devoted to the joint venture, and occasions may arise when we do not agree with the business goals and objectives of our partner, or other factors may arise that make the continuation of the relationship unwise or untenable. Any such disagreements or discontinuation of the relationship could disrupt our operations, put assets dedicated to the joint venture at risk, or affect the continuity of our business. If we are unable to resolve issues with a joint venture partner, we may decide to terminate the joint venture and either locate a different partner and continue to work in the area or seek opportunities for our assets in another market. The unwinding of an existing joint venture could prove to be difficult or time-consuming, and the loss of revenue related to the termination or unwinding of a joint venture and costs related to the sourcing of a new partner or the mobilization of assets to another market could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Please refer to Part 1, Item 1 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of our Sonatide joint venture in Angola. International Operations Exposed to Currency Devaluation and Fluctuation Risk Since we are a global company, our international operations are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks on all charter hire contracts denominated in foreign currencies. For some of our international contracts, a portion of the revenue and local expenses are incurred in local currencies and the company is at risk of changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. In some instances, we receive payments in currencies which are not easily traded and may be illiquid. We generally do not hedge against any foreign currency rate fluctuations associated with foreign currency contracts that arise in the normal course of business, which exposes us to the risk of exchange rate losses. Gains and losses from the revaluation of our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are included in our consolidated statements of operations. Foreign currency fluctuations may cause the U.S. dollar value of our non-U.S. results of operations and net assets to vary with exchange rate fluctuations. This could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. To minimize the financial impact of these items, the company attempts to contract a significant majority of its services in U.S. dollars and, when feasible, the company attempts to not maintain large, non-U.S. dollar-denominated cash balances. In addition, the company attempts to minimize its financial impact of these risks, by matching the currency of the company’s operating costs with the currency of revenue streams when considered appropriate. The company monitors the currency exchange risks associated with all contracts not denominated in U.S. dollars. 22 Table of Contents Operational Hazards Inherent to the Offshore Marine Vessel Industry The operation of any offshore marine asset involves inherent risk that could adversely affect our financial performance if we are not adequately insured or indemnified. Our operations are also subject to various operating hazards and risks, including risk of catastrophic marine disaster; adverse sea and weather conditions; mechanical failure; navigation and operational errors; collisions and property losses to our marine assets; damage to and loss of drilling rigs and production facilities owned by others; war, sabotage, piracy and terrorism risks; and business interruption due to political action or inaction, including nationalization of assets by foreign governments. These risks present a threat to the safety of our personnel and assets, cargo, equipment under tow and other property, as well as the environment. Any such event may result in a reduction in our revenues, increased costs, property damage, and additionally, third parties may have significant claims against us for damages due to personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and loss of business. We carry what we consider to be prudent levels of liability insurance, and our vessels and ROVs are generally insured for their estimated market value against damage or loss, including war, terrorism acts, and pollution risks, but the company does not fully insure for business interruption. Our insurance coverages are subject to deductibles and certain exclusions. We can provide no assurance, however, that our insurance coverages will be available beyond current contractual terms, that we will be able to obtain insurance for all operational risks and that our insurance policies will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. Our offshore oilfield operations involve a variety of operating hazards and risks that could cause losses. The company’s operations are subject to the hazards inherent in the offshore oilfield business. These include blowouts, explosions, fires, collisions, capsizings, sinkings, groundings and severe weather conditions. These hazards could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment (including to the property and equipment of third parties), pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Damages arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits alleging large claims, and the company may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards. The company’s exposure to operating hazards may increase significantly with the expansion of its subsea operations, including through the ownership and operation of ROVs. For example, the company may lose equipment, including ROVs, in the course of its subsea operations. This equipment may be difficult or costly to replace, and such losses may result in work stoppages or the loss of customers. Additionally, many of the company’s subsea operations will be performed on or near existing oil and gas infrastructure. These operations may expose us to new or increased liability relating to explosions, blowouts and cratering; mechanical problems, including pipe failure; and environmental accidents, including oil spills, gas leaks or ruptures, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine or well fluids, or other discharges of toxic gases or other pollutants. While the company maintains insurance protection against some of these risks, and seeks to obtain indemnity agreements from its customers requiring the customers to hold the company harmless from some of these risks, the company’s insurance and contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective to protect it under all circumstances or against all risks. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to the company could materially and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Similar Worldwide Anti-Bribery Laws Our global operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery and anti-corruption. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or obtaining an improper business benefit. We have adopted proactive procedures to promote compliance with the FCPA, but we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents may themselves not be subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA (or any other applicable anti-bribery laws in countries in which the company does business) could have a material adverse effect on our business and business reputation, as 23 Table of Contents well as our, results of operations, and cash flows. A discussion of the company’s FCPA internal investigation is disclosed in the “Completion of Internal Investigation and Settlements with United States and Nigerian Agencies” section of Note (12) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Compliance with Complex and Developing Laws and Regulations Our operations are subject to many complex and burdensome laws and regulations. Stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing worker health and safety and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the United States Coast Guard and the United States Customs and Border Protection and their foreign equivalents and to regulation by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping, the Oil Companies International Marine Forum, and the International Marine Contractors Association. Our operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require installation of costly equipment, increased manning or operational changes. Some environmental laws impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject the company to liability without regard to whether the company was negligent or at fault. Further, many of the countries in which the company operates have laws, regulations and enforcement systems that are largely undeveloped, and the requirements of these systems are not always readily discernible even to experienced and proactive participants. Further, these laws, the application and enforcement of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and subject to frequent change or reinterpretation, sometimes with retroactive effect, and with associated taxes, fees, fines or penalties sought from the company based on that reinterpretation or retroactive effect. While the company endeavors to comply with applicable laws and regulations, the company’s compliance efforts might not always be wholly successful, and failure to comply may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions, imposition of remedial obligations or the suspension or termination of the company’s operations. These laws and regulations may expose the company to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, including charterers or third party agents. Moreover, these laws and regulations could be changed or be interpreted in new, unexpected ways that substantially increase costs that the company may not be able to pass along to its customers. Any changes in laws, regulations or standards that would impose additional requirements or restrictions could adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In order to meet the continuing challenge of complying with applicable laws and regulations in jurisdictions where it operates, several years ago the company revitalized and strengthened its compliance training, making available and using a worldwide compliance reporting system and performing compliance auditing/monitoring. The company appointed its general counsel as its chief compliance officer in fiscal 2008 to help organize and lead these compliance efforts. This strengthened compliance program may from time to time identify past practices that need to be changed or remediated. Such corrective or remedial measures could involve significant expenditures or lead to changes in operational practices that could adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in Laws Governing U.S. Taxation of Foreign Source Income We operate globally through various subsidiaries which are subject to changes in applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, including laws or policies directed toward companies organized in jurisdictions with low tax rates. We determine our income tax expense based on our interpretation of the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in each jurisdiction for the period during which we operate and earn income. A material change in the tax laws, tax treaties, regulations or accounting principles, or interpretation thereof, in one or more countries in which we conduct business, or in which we are incorporated or a resident of, could result in a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings, and such change could be significant to our financial results. In addition, our overall effective tax rate could be adversely and suddenly affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries with lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries with higher statutory rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. 24 Table of Contents Over 90% of the company’s revenues and net income are generated by its operations outside of the United States. The company’s effective tax rate has averaged approximately 19% since fiscal 2006, primarily a result of the passage of The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which excluded from the company’s current taxable income in the U.S. income earned offshore through the company’s controlled foreign subsidiaries. Periodically, tax legislative initiatives are proposed to effectively increase U.S. taxation of income with respect to foreign operations. Whether any such initiatives will win congressional or executive approval and become law is presently unknown; however, if any such initiatives were to become law, and were such law to apply to the company’s international operations, it could result in a materially higher tax expense, which would have a material impact on the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and which could cause the company to review the utility of continued U.S. domicile. In addition, our income tax returns are subject to review and examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities where tax returns are filed. The company routinely evaluates the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. We do not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure or intercompany transfer pricing policies, or if the terms of certain income tax treaties were to be interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure, or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Compliance with Environmental Regulations A variety of regulatory developments, proposals and requirements have been introduced (and in some cases enacted) in the U.S. and various other countries that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other gases. Any such regulations could result in the increased cost of energy as well as environmental and other costs, and capital expenditures could be necessary to comply with the limitations. These developments may curtail production and demand for hydrocarbons such as crude oil and natural gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for the company’s offshore support vessels, ROVs and other assets, which are highly dependent on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production market. Although it is unlikely that demand for oil and gas will lessen dramatically over the short-term, in the long-term, increased regulation of environmental emissions may create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Unless and until regulations are implemented and their effects are known, we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate their impact on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to compete. However, any long term material adverse effect on the crude oil and natural gas industry may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Retention of a Sufficient Number of Skilled Workers Our operations require personnel with specialized skills and experience. As a result, our ability to remain productive and profitable will, in part, depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers in our industry is high, and the supply is limited. We could be faced with shortages of experienced personnel as we expand our operations and enter new markets. In developed countries, many senior engineers, managers and other professionals are reaching retirement age, with no assurance that enough highly skilled graduates and younger workers will be available to replace them. Unionization Efforts and Collective Bargaining Negotiations Where locally required, the company has union workers, subject to collective bargaining agreements, that are periodically in negotiation. These negotiations could result in higher personnel expenses, other increased costs, or increased operational restrictions. Further, efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce, including our U.S. GOM employees. We have also been subjected to threatened strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in certain countries. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs and operating restrictions, reduce our revenues, or limit our flexibility. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 