ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The company operates worldwide in many challenging and highly competitive markets. Listed below are some of the more critical or unique risk factors that we have identified as affecting or potentially affecting the company and the offshore marine service industry. You should consider these risks when evaluating any of the company’s forward-looking statements. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect the company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the accuracy of any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. Oil and Gas Prices Are Highly Volatile Commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas are highly volatile. Prices are extremely sensitive to the respective supply/demand relationship for crude oil and natural gas. High demand for crude oil and natural gas and/or low inventory levels for these resources as well as any perceptions about future supply interruptions can cause prices for crude oil and natural gas to rise, while generally, low demand for crude oil and natural gas and/or increases in crude oil and natural gas supplies cause prices for crude oil and natural gas to decrease. Factors that affect the supply of crude oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following: global demand for natural resources; the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) ability to control -11- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements crude oil production levels and pricing, as well as the level of production by non-OPEC countries; political and economic uncertainties; advances in exploration and development technology; significant weather conditions; and governmental restrictions placed on exploration and production of natural resources. Prior to mid-2008, oil and gas companies had increased their exploration and development activities in response to a very favorable pricing environment for oil and gas. During the last half of calendar 2008, worldwide demand for oil and gas dropped precipitously and energy prices sharply declined as a result of a global recession. If the global recession is prolonged, then development plans of exploration and production companies will likely continue at reduced levels. A decrease in offshore oil and gas drilling would affect global demand for offshore vessel services which, in turn, would result in a reduction in vessel charter rates and utilization rates, which would have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Changes in the Level of Capital Spending by Our Customers The company’s principal customers are major oil and natural gas exploration, development and production companies and foreign government-owned or controlled organizations. The company’s results of operations are highly dependent on the level of capital spending for exploration and development by the energy industry. The energy industry’s level of capital spending is substantially related to the demand for natural resources and prevailing prices of natural gas and crude oil. When commodity prices are low, the company’s customers generally reduce their capital spending budgets for offshore drilling, exploration and development. Other factors that influence the level of capital spending by our customers that are beyond the control of the company include: worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas; the cost of exploring and producing oil and natural gas, which can be affected by environmental regulations; significant weather conditions; technological advances that affect energy and its usage, and the availability and cost of financing. The Offshore Marine Service Industry is Highly Competitive The company operates in a highly competitive environment. We compete for business with our competitors on the basis of price, reputation for quality service, and the quality and availability of vessels. In general, declines in the level of offshore drilling and development activity by the energy industry negatively affects the demand for the company’s vessels and result in downward pressure on day rates. Extended periods of low vessel demand and/or low day rates will reduce the company’s revenues. Excess marine service capacity likewise exerts downward pressure on charter rates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed vessels enter the market and when vessels are mobilized between market areas. While the company is committed to the construction of additional vessels, it has also sold and/or scrapped a significant number of vessels over the last several years. A discussion about the aging of the company’s fleet, which has necessitated the company’s new vessel construction programs, appears in the “Vessel Construction Programs and Acquisitions” section of Item 7 in this report. Failure to Attract and Retain Key Management and Technical Personnel The company’s success depends on the continued service of its executive officers and other key management and technical personnel (particularly the company’s area managers, fleet and information technology personnel) and the company’s ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel. The loss of the services of a number of the company’s executive officers, area managers, fleet personnel or other key employees, or the company’s ability to recruit replacements for such personnel or to otherwise attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel could harm the company. The company currently does not carry key employee life insurance payable to the company with respect to any of its management employees. Risks Associated with Operating Internationally For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, 87%, 84%, and 78%, respectively, of the company’s total revenues were generated by international operations. The company’s international vessel -12- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements operations are vulnerable to many risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States, some of which have recently become more pronounced. Our customary risks of operating internationally, include political and economic instability within the host country; possible vessel seizures or nationalization of assets and other governmental actions by the host country; the ability to recruit and retain management of overseas operations; currency fluctuations and revaluations; and import/export restrictions; most of which are beyond the control of the company. The company is also subject to acts of piracy and kidnappings that put its assets and personnel at risk. The recent increase in the level of these criminal or terrorist acts has been well-publicized. As a marine services company that usually operates in coastal or tidal waters, the company is particularly vulnerable to these kinds of illicit activities. Although the company takes prudent measures to protect its personnel and assets in markets that present these risks, it has confronted these issues in the past and there can be no assurance it will not be subjected to them in the future. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have significantly increased the risk of political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which the company operates. It is possible that further acts of terrorism may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad and such acts of terrorism could be directed against properties and personnel of U.S.-owned companies such as ours. To date, the company has not experienced any property losses or material adverse effects on its results of operations and financial condition as a result of terrorism, political instability or war. International Operations Exposed to Currency Devaluation and Fluctuation Risk Due to the company’s international operations, the company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and exchange rate risks on all charter hire contracts denominated in foreign currencies. The company does not hedge against any foreign currency rate fluctuations associated with foreign currency contracts that arise in the normal course of business. However, to minimize the financial impact of these items, the company attempts to contract a significant majority of its services in United States dollars. The company continually monitors the currency exchange risks associated with all of its contracts not denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, where possible, the company attempts to minimize its financial impact of these risks by matching the currencies of the company’s operating costs with the currencies of the revenues and by matching the currencies of assets and liabilities. Operational Risks Inherent to the Offshore Marine Industry The operation of any marine vessel involves an inherent risk of catastrophic marine disaster, adverse weather and sea conditions, mechanical failure, collisions, and property losses to vessels, and business interruption due to political action in countries other than the United States. Any such event may result in a reduction in revenues or increased costs. The company’s vessels are insured for their estimated market value against damage or loss, including war, terrorism acts, and pollution risks. The company also carries workers’ compensation, maritime employer’s liability, director and officer liability, general liability (including third party pollution) and other insurance customary in the industry. Potential Overcapacity in the Offshore Marine Industry The worldwide offshore marine vessel market faces a potential risk of overcapacity. Over the past decade, construction of offshore vessels of the types the company operates has significantly increased. In addition, approximately 670 new-build support vessels (platform supply vessels and anchor handlers only) are expected to be delivered to the worldwide offshore vessel market within the next four years according to ODS-Petrodata. The current worldwide fleet of these classes of vessels approximates 2,100 vessels. An increase in vessel capacity could result in increased competition in the company’s industry which may have the effect of lowering charter rates and utilization rates, which, in turn, would result in lower revenues to the company. Difficult Market Conditions Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it challenging for the company to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. The success of the company’s business is both -13- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements directly and indirectly dependent upon conditions in the global financial and commercial markets that are outside its control and difficult to predict. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative impact on the company’s business and operations, which in turn would reduce its revenues and profitability. Although there has been some recent stabilization and recovery, energy prices continue to be at relatively low levels, reflecting reduced demand due to the global recession. The company continues to evaluate how a prolonged global recession might impact development plans of exploration and production companies and global demand for offshore support vessels. A prolonged recession may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services and a reduction in charter rates and/or utilization rates and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Consolidation of the Company’s Customer Base Oil and natural gas companies, energy companies and drilling contractors have undergone consolidation, and additional consolidation is possible. Consolidation results in fewer companies to charter or contract for the company’s equipment. Also, merger activity amongst oil and natural gas companies may negatively affect exploration, development and production activity as the consolidated companies generally integrate operations to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Less promising exploration and development projects of a combined company may be dropped or delayed. Such activity may result in an exploration and development budget for a combined company that is lower than the total budget of both companies before consolidation, which would adversely affect demand for the company’s vessels, thereby reducing the company’s revenues. In addition, consolidation could result in the absorption of an oil and gas company with whom the company has a strong commercial relationship into another company with which the company does not. Risks Associated with Construction and Maintenance The company has a number of vessels under construction and plans to construct additional vessels in response to current and future market conditions. The company also routinely engages shipyards to drydock vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance. Construction projects and drydockings are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns, resulting from shortages of equipment, lack of shipyard availability, unforeseen engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. A significant delay in either construction or drydockings could have a material adverse effect on contract commitments and revenues with respect to vessels under construction, conversion or other drydockings. Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction could also adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The demand for vessels currently under construction may diminish from originally anticipated levels. If the company fails to obtain favorable contracts for newly constructed vessels, such failure could have a material adverse effect on the company’s revenues and profitability. Also, the company is uncertain of the impacts of a prolonged global recession and/or prolonged distress in credit and capital markets will have on the ability of shipyards to meet their scheduled deliveries of new vessels or the ability of the company to renew its fleet through new vessel construction or acquisitions. A prolonged recession may increase the risk of insolvency of shipyards which could adversely affect our new construction program, and consequently, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act In order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, the company seeks to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. As a U.S. corporation, the company is subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or obtaining an improper business benefit. The company has adopted proactive procedures to promote compliance with the FCPA, but it may be held liable for actions taken by its strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents may not themselves be subject to the FCPA. Any -14- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements determination that the company has violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with Complex and Developing Laws and Regulations The company’s operations, both domestic and overseas, are subject to many complex and burdensome laws and regulations. Stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing worker health and safety and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the United States Coast Guard, the National Transportation Safety Board and the United States Customs Service and their foreign equivalents, and to regulation by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. The company’s operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require installation of costly equipment, increased manning or operational changes. Some environmental laws impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject the company to liability without regard to whether the company was negligent or at fault. Further, many of the countries in which the company operates have laws, regulations and enforcement systems that are largely undeveloped, and the requirements of these systems are not always readily discernable even to experienced and proactive participants. Further, these laws, regulations and enforcement systems can be unpredictable and subject to frequent change. While the company endeavors to comply with applicable laws and regulations, the company’s compliance efforts might not always be wholly successful, and failure to comply may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions, imposition of remedial obligations or the suspension or termination of the company’s operations. These laws and regulations may expose the company to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, including charterers or third party agents. Moreover, these laws and regulations could be changed or be interpreted in new, unexpected ways that substantially increase costs that the company may not be able to pass along to its customers. Any changes in laws, regulations or standards that would impose additional requirements or restrictions could adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In order to meet the continuing challenge of complying with applicable laws and regulations in jurisdictions where it operates, the company is in the midst of revitalizing and strengthening compliance training, the availability and usage of worldwide compliance reporting systems and compliance auditing/monitoring. The company appointed its general counsel as its chief compliance officer in fiscal 2008 to help organize and lead these compliance efforts. This strengthened compliance program may from time to time identify past practices that need to be changed or remediated. Such corrective or remedial measures could involve significant expenditures or lead to changes in operational practices that could adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks of Changes in Laws Governing U.S. Taxation of Foreign Source Income Approximately 90% of the company’s revenues and net income is generated by its operations outside of the United States. Since fiscal 2006, the company has enjoyed an average effective tax rate of 20.3%, a direct result of the passage of The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which excluded from the company’s current taxable income in the United States income earned offshore through the companies controlled foreign subsidiaries. From time to time, legislative initiatives have been proposed (most recently by the Obama Administration) to effectively increase United States taxation of income with respect to foreign operations. Whether any such initiatives will win Congressional or executive approval and become law is presently unknown; however, if any such initiatives were to become law, and were such law to apply to Tidewater’s international operations, then there could be a material impact on Tidewater’s net income or cash flow from operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. -15- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 