ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The company operates in a business environment that has many risks. Listed below are some of the more critical risk factors that affect the company and the offshore marine service industry and should be considered when evaluating any forward-looking statement. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect the company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the accuracy of any forward-looking statement made in this Form 10-K. Oil and Gas Prices Are Highly Volatile Commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas are highly volatile. Prices are extremely sensitive to the supply/demand relationship for the respective natural resources. High demand for crude oil and natural gas and/or low inventory levels for the resources as well as any perceptions about future supply interruptions can cause commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas to rise, while generally, low demand for natural resources and/or increases in crude oil and natural gas supplies cause commodity prices for the respective natural resources to decrease. Factors that affect the supply of crude oil and natural gas include but are not limited to the following: the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) ability to control crude oil production levels and pricing, as well as, the level of production by non-OPEC countries; political and economic uncertainties; advances in exploration and development technology; worldwide demand for natural resources; significant weather conditions; and governmental restrictions placed on exploration and production of natural resources. Changes in the Level of Capital Spending by Our Customers The company’s principal customers are major oil and natural gas exploration, development and production companies and foreign government-owned or controlled organizations. The company’s results of operations are highly dependent on the level of capital spending by the energy industry. The energy industry’s level of capital spending is substantially related to the demand for the resource and the prevailing commodity price of natural gas and crude oil. During periods of low commodity prices, the company’s customers generally reduce their capital spending budgets for offshore drilling, exploration and development. Historically, strong fundamentals such as high commodity prices for natural gas and crude oil, tight inventory levels for the resources along with strong consumer demand have been positive indicators for increases in capital spending by the company’s customers. Other factors that influence the level of capital spending by our customers which are beyond the control of the company include: worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas and the cost of exploring and producing oil and natural gas which can be affected by environmental regulations, significant weather conditions and technological advances that affect energy and its usage. The Offshore Marine Service Industry is Highly Competitive The company operates in a highly competitive environment. Competitive factors include price and quality of service by vessel operators and the quality and availability of vessels. Decreases in the level of offshore drilling and development activity by the energy industry generally negatively affect the demand for the company’s vessels thereby exerting downward pressure on day rates. Extended periods of low vessel demand and/or low day rates will reduce the company’s revenues. Excess marine service capacity exerts downward pressure on charter rates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed vessels enter the market and when vessels are mobilized between market areas. While the company has committed to the construction of several vessels, it has also sold and/or scrapped a significant number of vessels over the last several years. A discussion about the aging of the company’s fleet that has necessitated the company’s new vessel construction programs appears in the “Vessel Construction Programs and Acquisitions” section of Item 7. -11- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to Attract and Retain Key Management and Technical Personnel The company’s success depends upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, particularly the company’s area managers and fleet personnel, and the company’s ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel. The loss of the services of a number of the company’s executive officers, area managers, fleet personnel or other key employees, or our ability to recruit replacements for such personnel or to otherwise attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel could harm the company. The company currently does not carry key employee life insurance payable to the company with respect to any of its management employees. Risks Associated with Operating Internationally For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 78%, 77%, and 80%, respectively, of the company’s total revenues were generated by international operations. The company’s international vessel operations are vulnerable to the usual risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States. Such risks include political and economic instability, possible vessel seizures or nationalization of assets and other governmental actions, the ability to recruit and retain management of overseas operations, currency fluctuations and revaluations, and import/export restrictions; all of which are beyond the control of the company. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war, or hostility, have significantly increased the risk of political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which the company operates. It is possible that further acts of terrorism may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad and such acts of terrorism could be directed against properties and personnel of U.S.-owned companies such as ours. To date, the company has not experienced any property losses or material adverse effects on its results of operations and financial condition as a result of terrorism, political instability or war. At present, the company believes the risks of operating internationally to be within acceptable limits and, in view of the mobile nature of the company’s principal revenue producing assets, does not consider them to constitute a factor materially adverse to the conduct of its international vessel operations as a whole. Operational Risks Inherent to the Offshore Marine Industry The operation of any marine vessel involves an inherent risk of catastrophic marine disaster, adverse weather and sea conditions, mechanical failure, collisions, and property losses to vessels, and business interruption due to political action in countries other than the United States. Any such event may result in a reduction in revenues or increased costs. The company’s vessels are insured for their estimated market value against damage or loss, including war, terrorism acts, and pollution risks. The company also carries workers’ compensation, maritime employer’s liability, directors and officers’ liability, general liability (including third party pollution) and other insurance customary in the industry. Potential Overcapacity in the Offshore Marine Industry The worldwide offshore marine vessel market faces a potential risk of overcapacity. An estimated 548 new-build vessels are expected to be delivered to the worldwide offshore vessel market within the next five years (excluding the number of vessels currently being constructed by the company) as reported by ODS-Petrodata. An increase in vessel capacity would result in increased competition in the industry which may have the effect of lowering charter rates which in turn would result in lower revenues to the company. However, the worldwide offshore marine vessel industry has a large portfolio of aging vessels whose collective ages are nearing or exceeding the estimated economic life of the respective vessels. These older vessels could potentially retire from the market within the next few years if the cost of extending the vessels’ economic life is not economically justifiable. Although the attrition rate of these aging vessels is unknown, a reduction in worldwide vessel capacity may negate the potential effects the offshore marine industry may encounter when the new-build vessels begin being delivered to the market. Additionally, during the same period, over 150 new drilling and production support units will be added to the worldwide drilling and production support vessel fleet, that may, in turn, if fully utilized, create additional demand and minimize the effects of 548 new-build vessels being added to the offshore support vessel fleet. -12- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 