ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The company operates globally in many challenging and highly competitive markets. Listed below are some of the more critical or unique risk factors that we have identified as affecting or potentially affecting the company and the offshore marine service industry. You should consider these risks when evaluating any of the company’s forward-looking statements. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect the company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the accuracy of any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Oil and Gas Prices Are Highly Volatile Commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas are highly volatile. Prices are extremely sensitive to the respective supply/demand relationship for crude oil and natural gas. High demand for crude oil and natural gas, reductions in supplies and/or low inventory levels for these resources as well as any perceptions about future supply interruptions can cause prices for crude oil and natural gas to rise. Conversely, low demand for crude oil and natural gas, increases in supplies and/or increases in crude oil and natural gas inventories cause prices for crude oil and natural gas to decrease. In addition, global military, political, and economic events, including civil unrest in the Middle East and North Africa oil producing and exporting countries, have contributed to crude oil and natural gas price volatility. Factors that affect the supply of crude oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following: global demand for the hydrocarbons; the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) ability to control crude oil production levels and pricing, as well as, the level of production by non-OPEC countries; political and economic uncertainties (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations); advances in exploration and field development technologies; significant weather conditions; and governmental policies/restrictions placed on exploration and production of natural resources. Prolonged material downturns in crude oil and natural gas prices and/or perceptions of long-term lower commodity prices can negatively impact the development plans of exploration and production companies given the long-term nature of large-scale development projects. In addition, a prolonged recession may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services and a reduction in charter rates and/or utilization rates, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Higher commodity prices, however, do not necessarily translate into increased demand for offshore support vessel services as increased commodity supply could come from land-based energy markets. Crude oil pricing volatility has increased in recent years as crude oil has emerged into a financial asset class used for speculative purchase. Traditionally, crude oil futures and options were purchased by the commercial traders for future production in an effort to hedge against price risk. More recently, non-commercial market participants have traded crude oil derivatives to profit off of the price performance of crude oil instead of traditional investments. The extent to which speculation causes excessive crude oil pricing volatility is currently not fully known; however, there is a growing consensus that speculative purchase of crude oil futures and options helped push crude oil prices to record levels in mid-2008. The escalation in energy prices and subsequent financial crisis and global economic recession helped to create a global accord to limit or prevent excessive speculation in an effort to diminish extreme crude oil price volatility. Changes in the Level of Capital Spending by Our Customers Our principal customers are major and independent oil and natural gas exploration, field development and production companies; foreign government-owned or -controlled organizations and companies that explore and produce oil and natural gas; drilling contractors; and companies that provide other services to the offshore energy industry, such as, offshore construction companies, diving companies and well stimulation companies. Our results of operations are highly dependent on the level of capital spending for exploration and field development by the companies that operate in the energy industry. The energy industry’s level of capital spending is substantially related to current and expected future demand for hydrocarbons and the prevailing commodity prices of crude oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas. When commodity prices are low, our customers generally reduce their capital spending budgets for onshore and offshore drilling, exploration and field development. The level of offshore crude oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activity has historically been volatile, and that volatility is likely to continue. -17- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Other factors that influence the level of capital spending by our customers that are beyond our control include: worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas; the cost of exploring and producing crude oil and natural gas, which can be affected by environmental regulations; significant weather conditions; technological advances that affect energy production and consumption; local and international economic and political environment; and the availability and cost of financing. The Offshore Marine Service Industry is Highly Competitive The company operates in a highly competitive industry, which could depress vessel charter rates and utilization and adversely affect the company’s financial performance. We compete for business with our competitors on the basis of price; reputation for quality service; quality, suitability and technical capabilities of vessels; availability of vessels; safety and efficiency; cost of mobilizing vessels from one market to a different market; and national flag preference. In addition, competition in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of supplies from local vendors that favor or require local ownership. In general, declines in the level of offshore drilling and development activity by the energy industry negatively affects the demand for our vessels and results in downward pressure on day rates. Extended periods of low vessel demand and/or low day rates reduce the company’s revenues. Risk Associated With the Loss of a Major Customer We derive a significant amount of revenue from a few customers. For the years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the five largest customers accounted for approximately 45.3%, 47.3% and 45.4%, respectively, of the company’s total revenues, while the 10 largest customers accounted for a respective 62.8%, 61.8% and 60.3% of our total revenues. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if one or more of these customers decide to interrupt or curtail their activities; terminate their contracts with us; fail to renew existing contracts; and/or refuse to award new contracts, and we were unable to contract our vessels with new customers at comparable day rates. Consolidation of the Company’s Customer Base Oil and natural gas companies, energy companies and drilling contractors have undergone consolidation, and additional consolidation is possible. Consolidation reduces the number of customers for the company’s equipment, and may negatively affect exploration, field development and production activity as consolidated companies focus on increasing efficiency and reducing costs and delay or abandon exploration activity with less promise. Such activity could adversely affect demand for the company’s vessels and reduce the company’s revenues. Unconventional Natural Gas Sources are Exerting Downward Pricing Pressures on the Price of Natural Gas The rise in production of unconventional gas resources (onshore shale plays resulting from technological advancements in horizontal drilling and fracturing) in North America and the commissioning of a number of new large Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) export facilities around the world are contributing to an over-supplied natural gas market. While production of natural gas from unconventional sources is a relatively small portion of the worldwide natural gas production, it is increasing because improved drilling efficiencies are lowering the costs of extraction. There is a significant oversupply of natural gas inventories in the United States in part due to the increase of unconventional gas in the market. Prolonged increases in the worldwide supply of natural gas, whether from conventional or unconventional sources, will likely continue to suppress natural gas prices. A prolonged period of suppressed natural gas prices would likely have a negative impact on development plans of exploration and production companies, which in turn, may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services. This effect could be particularly acute in our U.S. operating segment, which is more oriented towards natural gas than crude oil production, and therefore more sensitive to the changes in the market pricing for natural gas than to changes in the market pricing of crude oil. -18- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Challenging Macroeconomic Conditions Uncertainty about future global economic market conditions makes it challenging to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. The success of our business is both directly and indirectly dependent upon conditions in the global financial and credit markets that are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Uncertain economic conditions may lead our customers to postpone capital spending in response to tighter credit and reductions in income or asset values. Similarly, when lenders and institutional investors reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to corporate and other industrial borrowers, the liquidity and financial condition of our customers can be adversely impacted. These factors may also adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative effect on our business and operations, which in turn would reduce our revenues and profitability. Prolonged material economic downturns in crude oil and natural gas prices can negatively affect the development plans of exploration and production companies. In addition, a prolonged recession may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services and a reduction in charter rates and/or utilization rates, which would have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Prior to mid-2008, oil and gas companies had increased their respective exploration and field development activities in response to a very favorable pricing environment for oil and gas that existed at that time. Worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas dropped precipitously and energy prices sharply declined as a result of a 2008-2009 global economic recession. Two years later, there are signs that economic improvement is underway; however, the pace of recovery and demand for energy and, in turn, offshore supply vessel services has been slow to recover. In addition, the recent increases in crude oil prices, resulting from higher demand for hydrocarbons and civil unrest in the Middle East and North African oil producing and exporting countries, has renewed economists’ concerns that high energy prices could imperil the economic recovery, although high commodity pricing generally bodes well for the energy industry. Potential Overcapacity in the Offshore Marine Industry Over the past decade, construction of offshore vessels of the types the company operates has increased significantly. Excess offshore supply vessel capacity likewise usually exerts downward pressure on charter rates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed vessels enter the market and when vessels are mobilized between market areas. While the company is committed to the construction of additional vessels, it has also sold and/or scrapped a significant number of vessels over the last several years. A discussion about the aging of the company’s fleet, which has necessitated the company’s new vessel construction programs, appears in the “Vessel Count, Dispositions, Acquisitions and Construction Programs” section of Item 7 in this report. The offshore supply vessel market has approximately 405 new-build offshore support vessels (platform supply vessels and anchor handlers only) that are currently estimated to be under construction and that are expected to be delivered to the worldwide offshore vessel market over the next three and a half years, according to ODS-Petrodata. The current worldwide fleet of these classes of vessels is estimated at approximately 2,590 vessels. An increase in vessel capacity could result in increased competition in the company’s industry which may have the effect of lowering charter rates and utilization rates, which, in turn, would result in lower revenues to the company. Also, please read “Potential Repeal or Amendment of the Shipping Act May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s U.S. Segment” risk below for additional information that can increase vessels overcapacity in our U.S. Segment. Risks Associated with Vessel Construction and Maintenance The company has a number of vessels currently under construction, and it may construct additional vessels in response to current and future market conditions. In addition, the company routinely engages shipyards to drydock vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance services. Construction projects and drydockings are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns, resulting from shortages of equipment, materials and skilled labor; lack of shipyard availability; unforeseen design and engineering problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; unscheduled delays in the delivery of material -19- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and equipment; financial and other difficulties at shipyards including labor disputes and shipyard insolvency; and inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals. A significant delay in either construction or drydockings of vessels could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fulfill contract commitments and to realize timely revenues with respect to vessels under construction, conversion or other drydockings. Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction could also adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The demand for vessels currently under construction may diminish from levels originally anticipated. If the company fails to obtain favorable contracts for newly constructed vessels, such failure could have a material adverse effect on the company’s revenues and profitability. Also, difficult economic market conditions and/or prolonged distress in credit and capital markets may hamper the ability of shipyards to meet their scheduled deliveries of new vessels or the ability of the company to renew its fleet through new vessel construction or acquisitions. In addition, there is always the risk of insolvency of the shipyards that construct or drydock our vessels, which could adversely affect our new construction program, and consequently, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Associated with Operating Internationally For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 92%, 92%, and 89%, respectively, of the company’s total revenues were generated by its international segment. The company’s international vessel operations are vulnerable to many risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States, some of which have recently become more pronounced. Our customary risks of operating internationally include political and economic instability within the host country; possible vessel seizures or nationalization of assets and other governmental actions by the host country (please refer to Item 7 in this report and Note (10) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our Venezuelan operations regarding vessel seizures); foreign government regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local competitors; an inability to recruit and retain management of overseas operations; currency fluctuations, revaluations, devaluations and restrictions on repatriation of currency; and import/export quotas and restrictions - most of which are beyond the control of the company. The company is also subject to acts of piracy and kidnappings that put its assets and personnel at risk. The increase in the level of these criminal or terrorist acts over the last few years has been well-publicized. As a marine services company that usually operates in offshore, coastal or tidal waters, the company is particularly vulnerable to these kinds of unlawful activities. Although the company takes what it considers to be prudent measures to protect its personnel and assets in markets that present these risks, it has confronted these kinds of incidents in the past, and there can be no assurance it will not be subjected to them in the future. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have significantly increased the risk of political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which the company operates. It is possible that further acts of terrorism may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad and such acts of terrorism could be directed against properties and personnel of U.S.-owned companies such as ours. To date, the company has not experienced any material adverse effects on its results of operations and financial condition as a result of terrorism, political instability or war. International Operations Exposed to Currency Devaluation and Fluctuation Risk Due to the company’s international operations, the company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks on all charter hire contracts denominated in foreign currencies. For some of our international contracts, a portion of the revenue and local expenses are incurred in local currencies and the company is at risk of changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. We generally do not hedge against any foreign currency rate fluctuations associated with foreign currency contracts that arise in the normal course of business, which exposes us to the risk of exchange rate losses. Gains and losses from the revaluation of our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than our functional currency are included in our consolidated statements of operations. Foreign currency fluctuations may cause the U.S. dollar value of our international results of operations and net assets to vary with exchange rate fluctuations. This could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, fluctuations in -20- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. To minimize the financial impact of these items, the company attempts to contract a significant majority of its services in U.S. dollars. In addition, the company attempts to minimize its financial impact of these risks, by matching the currency of the company’s operating costs with the currency of revenue streams when considered appropriate. The company continually monitors the currency exchange risks associated with all contracts not denominated in U.S. dollars. Operational Hazards Inherent to the Offshore Marine Vessel Industry The operation of any marine vessel involves inherent risk that could adversely affect our financial performance if we are not adequately insured or indemnified. Our operations are also subject to various operating hazards and risks, including risk of catastrophic marine disaster; adverse sea and weather conditions; mechanical failure; collisions and property losses to the vessel; damage to and loss of drilling rigs and production facilities; war, sabotage, pirate and terrorism risks; and business interruption due to political action or inaction, including nationalization of assets by foreign governments. These risks present a threat to the safety of personnel and to our vessels, cargo, equipment under tow and other property, as well as the environment. Any such event may result in a reduction in revenues, increased costs, property damage, and additionally, third parties may have significant claims against us for damages due to personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and loss of business. Our vessels are generally insured for their estimated market value against damage or loss, including war, terrorism acts, and pollution risks, but the company does not fully insure for business interruption. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and certain exclusions. We can provide no assurance, however, that our insurance coverage will be available beyond the renewal periods, that we will be able to obtain insurance for all operational risks and that our insurance policies will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Similar Worldwide Anti-Bribery Laws Our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery and anti-corruption. In order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, the company seeks to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. As a U.S. corporation, the company is subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or obtaining an improper business benefit. The company has adopted proactive procedures to promote compliance with the FCPA, but it may be held liable for actions taken by its strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents may not themselves be subjected to the FCPA. Any determination that the company has violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, and cash flows. A full discussion of the company’s FCPA internal investigation is disclosed in the “Internal Investigation” section of Note (10) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Compliance with Complex and Developing Laws and Regulations The company’s U.S. and International segment operations are subject to many complex and burdensome laws and regulations. Stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing worker health and safety and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the United States Coast Guard and the United States Customs and Border Protection and their foreign equivalents, and to regulation by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping, the Oil Companies International Marine Forum, and the International Marine Contractors Association. The company’s operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require installation of costly equipment, increased manning or -21- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements operational changes. Some environmental laws impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject the company to liability without regard to whether the company was negligent or at fault. Further, many of the countries in which the company operates have laws, regulations and enforcement systems that are largely undeveloped, and the requirements of these systems are not always readily discernable even to experienced and proactive participants. Further, these laws, regulations and enforcement systems can be unpredictable and subject to frequent change or reinterpretation, sometimes with retroactive effect, and with associated taxes, fees, or penalties sought from the company based on that reinterpretation or retroactive effect. While the company endeavors to comply with applicable laws and regulations, the company’s compliance efforts might not always be wholly successful, and failure to comply may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions, imposition of remedial obligations or the suspension or termination of the company’s operations. These laws and regulations may expose the company to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, including charterers or third party agents. Moreover, these laws and regulations could be changed or be interpreted in new, unexpected ways that substantially increase costs that the company may not be able to pass along to its customers. Any changes in laws, regulations or standards that would impose additional requirements or restrictions could adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In order to meet the continuing challenge of complying with applicable laws and regulations in jurisdictions where it operates, the company revitalized and strengthened its compliance training, makes available and uses a worldwide compliance reporting system and performs compliance auditing/monitoring. The company appointed its general counsel as its chief compliance officer in fiscal 2008 to help organize and lead these compliance efforts. This strengthened compliance program may from time to time identify past practices that need to be changed or remediated. Such corrective or remedial measures could involve significant expenditures or lead to changes in operational practices that could adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, which provides that, upon proclamation by the President of the United States of a national emergency or a threat to the security of the national defense, the Secretary of Transportation may requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by U.S. citizens (including U.S. corporations), including vessels under construction in the United States. If our vessels were purchased or requisitioned by the U.S. federal government, we would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessels in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire, but we would not be entitled to be compensated for any consequential damages suffered. Although the purchase or requisition of one or a few of our vessels for an extended period of time will not cause adverse material negative financial effects to our company, the purchase or requisition of several or a significant number of our vessels for an extended period of time may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risk of Changes in Laws Governing U.S. Taxation of Foreign Source Income We operate globally through various subsidiaries which are subject to changes in applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, including laws or policies directed toward companies organized in jurisdictions with low tax rates. A material change in the tax laws or policies, or their interpretation, of any country in which we conduct business, or in which we are incorporated or resident, could result in a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings, and such change could be significant to our financial results. Approximately 92% of the company’s revenues and net income are generated by its operations outside of the United States. The company’s effective tax rate has averaged approximately 18.7% since fiscal 2006, primarily a result of the passage of The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which excluded from the company’s current taxable income in the U.S. income earned offshore through the company’s controlled foreign subsidiaries. Periodically, tax legislative initiatives are proposed to effectively increase U.S. taxation of income with respect to foreign operations. Whether any such initiatives will win congressional or executive approval and become law is presently unknown; however, if any such initiatives were to become law, and were such law to apply to the company’s international operations, it would result in a materially higher tax expense, which would have a -22- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements material impact on the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and which could cause the company to review the utility of continued U.S. domicile. In addition, our income tax returns are subject to review and examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities where tax returns are filed. The company routinely evaluates the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. We do not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure or intercompany transfer pricing policies, or if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure, or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Potential Repeal or Amendment of the Shipping Act May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s U.S. Segment The provisions of the Shipping Act restricting coastwise trade to vessels controlled by U.S. citizens may from time to time be circumvented by foreign competitors that seek to engage in trade reserved for vessels controlled by U.S. citizens and otherwise qualifying for coastwise trade. There have also been attempts to repeal or amend the citizen provision of the Shipping Act, and these attempts are expected to continue. Legal challenges against such actions are difficult, costly to pursue and unpredictable. To the extent foreign competition is permitted to engage in U.S. coastwise trade by vessels that are built in lower-cost shipyards, owned and manned by foreign nationals with favorable foreign tax incentives and with lower wages and benefits than U.S. citizens, such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on the company’s U.S. segment operations. However, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 92%, 92%, and 89%, respectively, of the company’s vessel revenues were generated by its international segment. Compliance with Environmental Regulations May Adversely Impact Our Operations and Markets A variety of regulatory developments, proposals and requirements have been introduced in the U.S. and various other countries that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other gases. If such legislation is enacted, increased cost of energy as well as environmental and other costs and capital expenditures could be necessary to comply with the limitations. These developments may curtail production and demand for hydrocarbons such as crude oil and natural gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for the company’s offshore supply vessels, which are highly dependent on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production market. Although it is unlikely that demand for oil and gas will lessen dramatically over the short-term, in the long-term, demand for oil and gas or increased regulation of environmental regulations may create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Unless and until legislation is enacted and its terms are known, we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate its impact on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to compete. However, any long term material adverse effect on the crude oil and natural gas industry may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Deepwater Horizon Incident and Effects of the Drilling Moratorium in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico Could Have a Material Significant Impact on Exploration and Production Activities in United States Coastal Waters that Could Adversely Affect the U. S. Operations of the Company As we are an energy service company, the success and profitability of our operations in the United States are dependent on the level of upstream drilling and exploration activity in the U.S. GOM, and to a lesser extent on the West Coast of the United States and in Alaska. In particular, many of our new-build vessels were designed to operate in deep water off the continental shelf to assist in drilling and exploration efforts in those areas. Since fiscal 2009, between 63% and 40% of our revenues in the U.S. GOM have come from our deepwater vessels, and the margins that we earn on deepwater vessels have typically been higher than margins we achieve on other classes of our vessels. Although the BOEMRE has begun to issue new drilling permits, the pace remains slow, and in any event, the new rules and requirements could continue to suppress the level of drilling activity and the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our U.S. operations. In -23- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements addition, if exploration and production activity migrates from the U.S. GOM to international markets because of the additional regulations and higher operating costs in the U.S. GOM, it is also possible that other offshore supply vessel owners will redeploy additional vessels to international markets. These mobilizations could increase competition and have a negative effect on vessel utilization and day rates in international markets, depending on the number of drilling rigs that exit the U.S. GOM and move to international markets. Also among the uncertainties that confront the industry are whether Congress will repeal the $75.0 million cap for non-reclamation liabilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and whether insurance will continue to be available at a reasonable cost and with reasonable policy limits to support drilling and exploration activity in the U.S. GOM. Although the eventual outcome of these developments is currently unknown, we believe that, even in the best case for the industry that we serve, additional regulatory and operational costs will be incurred, and these additional costs may either reduce the level of exploratory activity in the U.S. GOM, reduce demand for our services, or both. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 