ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The company operates globally in many challenging and highly competitive markets. Listed below are some of the more critical or unique risk factors that we have identified as affecting or potentially affecting the company and the offshore marine service industry. You should consider these risks when evaluating any of the company’s forward-looking statements. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect the company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the accuracy of any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Oil and Gas Prices Are Highly Volatile Commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas are highly volatile. Prices are extremely sensitive to the respective supply/demand relationship for crude oil and natural gas. High demand for crude oil and natural gas and/or low inventory levels for these resources as well as any perceptions about future supply interruptions can cause prices for crude oil and natural gas to rise, while generally, low demand for crude oil and natural gas and/or increases in crude oil and natural gas supplies cause prices for crude oil and natural gas to decrease. Factors that affect the supply of crude oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following: global demand for the natural resources; the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) ability to control crude oil production levels and pricing, as well as the level of production by non-OPEC countries; political and economic uncertainties (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations); advances in exploration and field development technologies; significant weather conditions; and governmental restrictions placed on exploration and production of natural resources. Prolonged material economic downturn in crude oil and natural gas prices can negatively impact the development plans of exploration and production companies. In addition, a prolonged recession may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services and a reduction in charter rates and/or utilization rates, which would have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Changes in the Level of Capital Spending by Our Customers The company’s principal customers are major and independent oil and natural gas exploration, development and production companies; foreign government-owned or-controlled organizations and companies that explore and produce oil and natural gas; drilling contractors; and companies that provide other services to the offshore energy industry, such as, offshore construction companies, diving companies and well stimulation companies. The company’s results of operations are highly dependent on the level of capital spending for exploration and field development by the companies that operate in the energy industry. The energy industry’s level of capital spending is substantially related to the demand for natural resources and prevailing commodity prices of natural gas and crude oil. When commodity prices are low, the company’s customers generally reduce their capital spending budgets for onshore and offshore drilling, exploration and development. The level of offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activity has historically been volatile, and that volatility is likely to continue. Other factors that influence the level of capital spending by our customers that are beyond the control of the company include: worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas; the cost of exploring and producing oil and natural gas, which can be affected by environmental regulations; significant weather conditions; technological advances that affect energy production and consumption; local and international economic and political environment; and the availability and cost of financing. Unconventional Natural Gas Sources are Exerting Downward Pricing Pressures on the Price of Natural Gas The rise in production of unconventional gas resources in North America and the commissioning of a number of new large Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) export facilities around the world are contributing to an over-supplied natural gas market. While production of natural gas from unconventional sources is a relatively small portion of the worldwide natural gas production, it is expected to grow in the future. There is a significant oversupply of natural gas inventories in the Unites States in part due to the increase of -16- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements unconventional gas in the market. Prolonged increases in the worldwide supply of natural gas, whether from conventional or unconventional sources, will exert downward pressure on natural gas prices. A prolonged downturn in natural gas pricing would likely have a negative impact on development plans of exploration and production companies, which in turn, may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services. This consequence could be particularly acute in the company’s U.S. operating segment, which is more oriented towards natural gas than crude oil production, and therefore more sensitive to the changes in the market pricing for natural gas than to changes in the market pricing of crude oil. Difficult Economic Market Conditions Uncertainty about future global economic market conditions makes it challenging for the company to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. The success of the company’s business is both directly and indirectly dependent upon conditions in the global financial and commercial markets that are outside its control and difficult to predict. Uncertain economic conditions may lead our customers to postpone spending in response to tighter credit and reductions in income or asset values, which may lead many financial lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, which, in turn, will adversely affect the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. These factors may also adversely affect the company’s liquidity and financial condition. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative impact on the company’s business and operations, which in turn would reduce its revenues and profitability. Prolonged material economic downturn in crude oil and natural gas prices can negatively impact the development plans of exploration and production companies. In addition, a prolonged recession may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services and a reduction in charter rates and/or utilization rates, which would have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Prior to mid-2008, oil and gas companies had increased their respective exploration and development activities in response to a very favorable pricing environment for oil and gas that existed at that time. Worldwide demand for oil and gas dropped precipitously and energy prices sharply declined during the last half of calendar 2008 as a result of a global economic recession. Over one year later, there are signs that economic improvement is underway; however, the pace of recovery and demand for energy and, in turn, offshore supply vessel services has been slow. The Offshore Marine Service Industry is Highly Competitive The company operates in a highly competitive industry, which could depress vessel charter rates and utilization and adversely affect the company’s financial performance. We compete for business with our competitors on the basis of price; reputation for quality service; quality, suitability and technical capabilities of vessels; availability of vessels; safety and efficiency; and cost of mobilizing vessels from one market to another. In addition, competition in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of supplies from local vendors that favor or require local ownership. In general, declines in the level of offshore drilling and development activity by the energy industry negatively affect the demand for the company’s vessels and result in downward pressure on day rates. Extended periods of low vessel demand and/or low day rates reduce the company’s revenues. Potential Overcapacity in the Offshore Marine Industry Over the past decade, construction of offshore vessels of the types the company operates has increased significantly. Excess offshore supply vessel capacity likewise exerts downward pressure on charter rates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed vessels enter the market and when vessels are mobilized between market areas. While the company is committed to the construction of additional vessels, it has also sold and/or scrapped a significant number of vessels over the last several years. A discussion about the aging of the company’s fleet, which has necessitated the company’s new vessel construction programs, appears in the “Vessel Count, Dispositions, Acquisitions and Construction Programs” section of Item 7 in this report. Also, please read “Potential Overcapacity in the Offshore Marine Industry” risk below for further information that can exert downward pricing pressures on charter rates. -17- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The offshore supply vessel market has approximately 450 new-build offshore support vessels (platform supply vessels and anchor handlers only) that are currently estimated to be under construction and that are expected to be delivered to the worldwide offshore vessel market over the next four years, according to ODS-Petrodata. The current worldwide fleet of these classes of vessels is estimated at approximately 2,450 vessels. An increase in vessel capacity could result in increased competition in the company’s industry which may have the effect of lowering charter rates and utilization rates, which, in turn, would result in lower revenues to the company. Also, please read “Potential Repeal or Amendment of the Shipping Act May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s U.S. Segment” risk below for additional information that can increase vessels overcapacity in our U.S. Segment. Risks Associated with Operating Internationally For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 92%, 89%, and 87%, respectively, of the company’s total revenues were generated by its international segment. The company’s international vessel operations are vulnerable to many risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States, some of which have recently become more pronounced. Our customary risks of operating internationally include political and economic instability within the host country; possible vessel seizures or nationalization of assets and other governmental actions by the host country (please refer to Item 7 in this report and Note 10 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our Venezuelan operations regarding vessel seizures); foreign government regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local competitors; an inability to recruit and retain management of overseas operations; currency fluctuations, revaluations, devaluations and restrictions on repatriation of currency; and import/export quotas and restrictions; most of which are beyond the control of the company. The company is also subject to acts of piracy and kidnappings that put its assets and personnel at risk. The increase over the last few years in the level of these criminal or terrorist acts has been well-publicized. As a marine services company that usually operates in coastal or tidal waters, the company is particularly vulnerable to these kinds of illicit activities. Although the company takes what it considers to be prudent measures to protect its personnel and assets in markets that present these risks, it has confronted these issues in the past and there can be no assurance it will not be subjected to them in the future. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have significantly increased the risk of political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which the company operates. It is possible that further acts of terrorism may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad and such acts of terrorism could be directed against properties and personnel of U.S.-owned companies such as ours. To date, the company has not experienced any material adverse effects on its results of operations and financial condition as a result of terrorism, political instability or war. Operational Hazards Inherent to the Offshore Marine Vessel Industry The operation of any marine vessel involves inherent risk that could adversely affect our financial performance if we are not adequately insured or indemnified. Our operations are also subject to various operating hazards and risks, including risk of catastrophic marine disaster; adverse sea and weather conditions; mechanical failure; collisions and property losses to the vessel; damage to and loss of drilling rigs and production facilities; war, sabotage, pirate and terrorism risks; and business interruption due to political action or inaction, including nationalization of asset by foreign governments. These risks present a threat to the safety of personnel and to our vessels, cargo, equipment under tow and other property, as well as the environment. Any such event may result in a reduction in revenues, increased costs, property damage, and additionally, third parties may have significant claims against us for damages due to personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and loss of business. Our vessels are generally insured for their estimated market value against damage or loss, including war, terrorism acts, and pollution risks, but the company does not fully insure for business interruption. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and certain exclusions. We can provide no assurance, however, that our insurance coverage will be available beyond the renewal periods, that we will be able to obtain insurance for all operational risks and that our insurance policies will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. -18- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to Attract and Retain Key Management and Technical Personnel The company’s success depends on the continued service of its executive officers and other key management and technical personnel (particularly the company’s area managers, fleet and information technology personnel) and the company’s ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel. The loss of the services of a number of the company’s executive officers, area managers, fleet personnel or other key employees, or the company’s ability to recruit replacements for such personnel or to otherwise attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel could harm the company. The company currently does not carry key employee life insurance payable to the company with respect to any of its management employees. International Operations Exposed to Currency Devaluation and Fluctuation Risk Due to the company’s international operations, the company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks on all charter hire contracts denominated in foreign currencies. For some of our international contracts, a portion of the revenue and local expenses are incurred in local currencies with the result that the company is at risk of changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and foreign currencies. The company generally does not hedge against any foreign currency rate fluctuations associated with foreign currency contracts that arise in the normal course of business. To minimize the financial impact of these items, the company attempts to contract a significant majority of its services in U.S. dollars. The company attempts to minimize its financial impact of these risks, by matching the currency of the company’s operating costs with the currency of the revenue streams when considered appropriate. The company continually monitors the currency exchange risks associated with all contracts not denominated in U.S. dollars. Consolidation of the Company’s Customer Base Oil and natural gas companies, energy companies and drilling contractors have undergone consolidation, and additional consolidation is possible. Consolidation reduces the number of customers for the company’s equipment, and may negatively affect exploration, development and production activity as consolidated companies focus on increasing efficiency and reducing costs and delay or abandon exploration activity with less promise. Such activity could adversely affect demand for the company’s vessels, and reduce the company’s revenues. In addition, consolidation could result in the absorption of an oil and gas company with whom the company has a strong commercial relationship into another company with which the company does not and vice-versa. Risks Associated with Vessel Construction and Maintenance The company has a number of vessels under construction, and it may construct additional vessels in response to current and future market conditions. In addition, the company routinely engages shipyards to drydock vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance services. Construction projects and drydockings are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns, resulting from shortages of equipment, materials and skilled labor; lack of shipyard availability; unforeseen design and engineering problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; unscheduled delays in the delivery of material and equipment; and inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals. A significant delay in either construction or drydockings of vessels could have a material adverse effect on contract commitments and revenues with respect to vessels under construction, conversion or other drydockings. Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction could also adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The demand for vessels currently under construction may diminish from originally anticipated levels. If the company fails to obtain favorable contracts for newly constructed vessels, such failure could have a material adverse effect on the company’s revenues and profitability. Also, difficult economic market conditions and/or prolonged distress in credit and capital markets may hamper the ability of shipyards to meet their scheduled deliveries of new vessels or the ability of the company to renew its fleet through new vessel construction or acquisitions. In addition, there is always the risk of insolvency of the shipyards that construct or drydock our vessels, which could adversely affect our new construction program, and consequently, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. -19- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act In order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, the company seeks to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. As a U.S. corporation, the company is subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or obtaining an improper business benefit. The company has adopted proactive procedures to promote compliance with the FCPA, but it may be held liable for actions taken by its strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents may not themselves be subject to the FCPA. Any determination that the company has violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, and cash flows. Compliance with Complex and Developing Laws and Regulations The company’s U.S. and International segment operations are subject to many complex and burdensome laws and regulations. Stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing worker health and safety and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the United States Coast Guard, the National Transportation Safety Board and the United States Customs Service and their foreign equivalents, and to regulation by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. The company’s operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require installation of costly equipment, increased manning or operational changes. Some environmental laws impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject the company to liability without regard to whether the company was negligent or at fault. Further, many of the countries in which the company operates have laws, regulations and enforcement systems that are largely undeveloped, and the requirements of these systems are not always readily discernable even to experienced and proactive participants. Further, these laws, regulations and enforcement systems can be unpredictable and subject to frequent change. While the company endeavors to comply with applicable laws and regulations, the company’s compliance efforts might not always be wholly successful, and failure to comply may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions, imposition of remedial obligations or the suspension or termination of the company’s operations. These laws and regulations may expose the company to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, including charterers or third party agents. Moreover, these laws and regulations could be changed or be interpreted in new, unexpected ways that substantially increase costs that the company may not be able to pass along to its customers. Any changes in laws, regulations or standards that would impose additional requirements or restrictions could adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In order to meet the continuing challenge of complying with applicable laws and regulations in jurisdictions where it operates, the company revitalized and strengthened its compliance training, makes available and uses a worldwide compliance reporting system and performs compliance auditing/monitoring. The company appointed its general counsel as its chief compliance officer in fiscal 2008 to help organize and lead these compliance efforts. This strengthened compliance program may from time to time identify past practices that need to be changed or remediated. Such corrective or remedial measures could involve significant expenditures or lead to changes in operational practices that could adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, which provides that, upon proclamation by the President of the United States of a national emergency or a threat to the security of the national defense, the Secretary of Transportation may requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by U.S. citizens (including U.S. corporations), including vessels under construction in the United States. If our vessels were purchased or requisitioned by the U.S. federal government, we would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessels in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire, but we would not be entitled to be compensated for any consequential damages -20- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements suffered. Although the purchase or requisition of one or a few of our vessels for an extended period of time will not cause adverse material negative financial effects to our company, the purchase or requisition of several or a significant number of our vessels for an extended period of time may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risk of Changes in Laws Governing U.S. Taxation of Foreign Source Income Approximately 92% of the company’s revenues and net income is generated by its operations outside of the United States. The company has enjoyed an average effective tax rate of approximately 18% since fiscal 2006, primarily a result of the passage of The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which excluded from the company’s current taxable income in the U.S. income earned offshore through the company’s controlled foreign subsidiaries. From time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed to effectively increase U.S. taxation of income with respect to foreign operations. Whether any such initiatives win congressional or executive approval and become law is presently unknown; however, if any such initiatives were to become law, and were such law to apply to the company’s international operations, it would result in a materially higher tax expense, which would have a material impact on the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Potential Repeal or Amendment of the Shipping Act May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s U.S. Segment The provisions of the Shipping Act restricting coastwise trade to vessels controlled by U.S. citizens may from time to time be circumvented by foreign competitors that seek to engage in trade reserved for vessels controlled by U.S. citizens and otherwise qualifying for coastwise trade. There have also been attempts to repeal or amend the citizen provision of the Shipping Act, and these attempts are expected to continue. Legal challenges against such actions are difficult, costly to pursue and unpredictable. To the extent foreign competition is permitted to engage in U.S. coastwise trade by vessels that are built in lower-cost shipyards, owned and manned by foreign nationals with favorable foreign tax incentives and with lower wages and benefits than U.S. citizens, such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on the company’s U.S. segment operations. However, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 92%, 89%, and 87%, respectively, of the company’s total revenues were generated by its international segment. Compliance with Environmental Regulations May Adversely Impact Our Operations and Markets A variety of regulatory developments, proposals and requirements have been introduced in the U.S. and various other countries that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other gases. If such legislation is enacted, increased energy, environmental and other costs and capital expenditures could be necessary to comply with the limitations. These developments may curtail production and demand for hydrocarbons such as crude oil and natural gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for the company’s offshore supply vessels, which are highly dependent on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production market. Although it is unlikely that demand for oil and gas will lessen dramatically over the short-term, in the long-term, demand for oil and gas or increased regulation of environmental regulations may create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Unless and until legislation is enacted and its terms are known, we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate its impact on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to compete. However, any long term material adverse effect on the crude oil and natural gas industry may adversely affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Recent Rig Catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico Could Have a Significant Impact on Exploration and Production Activities in United States Coastal Waters that Could Adversely Affect the U. S. Operations of the Company. The April 2010 catastrophic explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the related oil spill in the U. S. GOM may have an adverse effect on drilling and exploration activities in the U. S. offshore waters, including the GOM. The Obama Administration has announced that no additional offshore drilling permits will be issued and no additional offshore leases for drilling and exploration will be awarded until an assessment has -21- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements been completed of the causes of the catastrophe and appropriate safeguards have been implemented to reduce the likelihood of future similar occurrences. The Obama Administration has also proposed reorganizing the Mineral Management Service into two regulatory bodies, with one of the two bodies dedicated to regulatory oversight of offshore drilling operations. The ultimate effects of the rig catastrophe, and the governmental and industry response to these events, could have a significant impact on the offshore E&P industry and energy service companies that serve that industry. Among the possible future consequences of this event are additional regulatory oversight and control with respect to offshore drilling, a potential ban or restriction on oil and gas exploration in certain offshore areas, particularly deepwater drilling, and an increase in insurance premiums for casualty insurance that may be more difficult to obtain. Any such development could reduce demand for the company’s services in the U. S. GOM. The events in the U. S. GOM may also have ramifications in foreign exploration areas, which could adversely affect our international operations as well, although it is impossible to assess at this time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 