ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The company operates in a highly competitive business environment that has many risks. Listed below are some of the more critical or unique risk factors that affect, or may affect, the company and the offshore marine service industry and that should be considered when evaluating any forward-looking statement. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect the company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the accuracy of any forward-looking statement made in this Form 10-K. Oil and Gas Prices Are Highly Volatile Commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas are highly volatile. Prices are extremely sensitive to the supply/demand relationship for the respective natural resources. High demand for crude oil and natural gas and/or low inventory levels for the resources as well as any perceptions about future supply interruptions can cause commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas to rise, while generally, low demand for natural resources and/or increases in crude oil and natural gas supplies cause commodity prices for the respective natural resources to decrease. Factors that affect the supply of crude oil and natural gas include but are not limited to the following: the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) ability to control crude oil production levels and pricing, as well as, the level of production by non-OPEC countries; political and economic uncertainties; advances in exploration and development technology; global demand for natural resources; significant -11- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements weather conditions; and governmental restrictions placed on exploration and production of natural resources. Changes in the Level of Capital Spending by Our Customers The company’s principal customers are major oil and natural gas exploration, development and production companies and foreign government-owned or controlled organizations. The company’s results of operations are highly dependent on the level of capital spending for exploration and development by the energy industry. The energy industry’s level of capital spending is substantially related to the demand for natural resources and the prevailing commodity price of natural gas and crude oil. During periods of current or projected low commodity prices, the company’s customers generally reduce their capital spending budgets for offshore drilling, exploration and development. Other factors that influence the level of capital spending by our customers which are beyond the control of the company include: worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas and the cost of exploring and producing oil and natural gas which can be affected by environmental regulations, significant weather conditions and technological advances that affect energy and its usage. The Offshore Marine Service Industry is Highly Competitive The company operates in a highly competitive environment. Competitive factors include price and quality of service by vessel operators and the quality and availability of vessels. Decreases in the level of offshore drilling and development activity by the energy industry generally negatively affect the demand for the company’s vessels by exerting downward pressure on day rates. Extended periods of low vessel demand and/or low day rates will reduce the company’s revenues. Excess marine service capacity exerts downward pressure on charter rates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed vessels enter the market and when vessels are mobilized between market areas. While the company has committed to the construction of additional vessels, it has also sold and/or scrapped a significant number of vessels over the last several years. A discussion about the aging of the company’s fleet, that has necessitated the company’s new vessel construction programs, appears in the “Vessel Construction Programs and Acquisitions” section of Item 7 in this Form 10-K. Failure to Attract and Retain Key Management and Technical Personnel The company’s success depends on the continued service of its executive officers and other key management and technical personnel (particularly the company’s area managers and fleet personnel) and the company’s ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel. The loss of the services of a number of the company’s executive officers, area managers, fleet personnel or other key employees, or the company’s ability to recruit replacements for such personnel or to otherwise attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel could harm the company. The company currently does not carry key employee life insurance payable to the company with respect to any of its management employees. Risks Associated with Operating Internationally For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, 84%, 78%, and 77%, respectively, of the company’s total revenues were generated by international operations. The company's international vessel operations are vulnerable to the usual risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States. Such risks include political and economic instability; possible vessel seizures or nationalization of assets and other governmental actions; kidnappings or other organized criminal activity against employees or company property; the ability to recruit and retain management of overseas operations; currency fluctuations and revaluations; and import/export restrictions; all of which are beyond the control of the company. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war, or hostility, have significantly increased the risk of political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which the company operates. It is possible that further acts of terrorism may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad and such acts of terrorism could be directed against properties and personnel of U.S.-owned -12- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements companies such as ours. To date, the company has not experienced any property losses or material adverse effects on its results of operations and financial condition as a result of terrorism, political instability or war. Operational Risks Inherent to the Offshore Marine Industry The operation of any marine vessel involves an inherent risk of catastrophic marine disaster, adverse weather and sea conditions, mechanical failure, collisions, and property losses to vessels, and business interruption due to political action in countries other than the United States. Any such event may result in a reduction in revenues or increased costs. The company’s vessels are insured for their estimated market value against damage or loss, including war, terrorism acts, and pollution risks. The company also carries workers’ compensation, maritime employer’s liability, directors and officers’ liability, general liability (including third party pollution) and other insurance customary in the industry. Potential Overcapacity in the Offshore Marine Industry The worldwide offshore marine vessel market faces a potential risk of overcapacity. Approximately 715 new-build vessels are expected to be delivered to the worldwide offshore vessel market within the next five years as reported by ODS-Petrodata. An increase in vessel capacity could result in increased competition in the company’s industry which may have the effect of lowering charter rates, which, in turn, would result in lower revenues to the company. Difficult Market Conditions The success of the company’s business is both directly and indirectly dependent upon conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world that are outside its control and difficult to predict. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative impact on the company's business and investments, which in turn would reduce its revenues and profitability. Consolidation of the Company’s Customer Base Oil and natural gas companies, energy companies and drilling contractors have undergone consolidation and additional consolidation is possible. Consolidation results in fewer companies to charter or contract for the company’s equipment. Also, merger activity among both major and independent oil and natural gas companies affects exploration, development and production activity as the consolidated companies integrate operations to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Less promising exploration and development projects of a combined company may be dropped or delayed. Such activity may result in an exploration and development budget for a combined company that is lower than the total budget of both companies before consolidation, which would adversely affect demand for the company’s vessels, thereby reducing the company’s revenues. In addition, consolidation could result in the absorption of an oil and gas company with whom the company has a strong commercial relationship into another company with which the company does not. Risks Associated with Construction and Maintenance The company has a number of vessels under construction and plans to construct additional vessels in response to current and future market conditions. The company also routinely engages shipyards to drydock vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance. Construction projects and drydockings are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns, resulting from shortages of equipment, lack of shipyard availability, unforeseen engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. A significant delay in either construction or drydockings could have a material adverse effect on contract commitments and revenues with respect to vessels under construction, conversion or for other drydockings. Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction could also adversely affect the company’s financial condition and results of operations. The demand for vessels -13- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements currently under construction may diminish from anticipated levels, which may have a material adverse effect on the company’s revenues and profitability in response to a failure to obtain contracts on favorable terms or at all. Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act In order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, the company seeks to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. As a U.S. corporation, the company is subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or obtaining an improper business benefit. The company has adopted proactive procedures to promote compliance with the FCPA, but it may be held liable for actions taken by its strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents may not themselves be subject to the FCPA. Any determination that the company has violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Compliance with Complex and Developing Laws and Regulations The company’s operations, both domestic and overseas, are subject to many complex and burdensome laws and regulations. Stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing worker health and safety and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the United States Coast Guard, the National Transportation Safety Board and the United States Customs Service, and their foreign equivalents, and to regulation by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. The company’s operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require installation of costly equipment, increased manning, or operational changes. Some environmental laws impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject the company to liability without regard to whether the company was negligent or at fault. Further, many of the countries in which the company operates have laws, regulations and enforcement systems that are largely undeveloped and the requirements of these systems are not always readily discernable even to experienced and proactive participants. Further, these laws, regulations and enforcement systems can be unpredictable and subject to frequent change. While the company endeavors to comply with applicable laws and regulations, the company’s compliance efforts might not always be wholly successful and failure to comply may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions, imposition of remedial obligations or the suspension or termination of the company’s operations. These laws and regulations may expose the company to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others, including charterers or third party agents. Moreover, these laws and regulations could be changed or be interpreted in new, unexpected ways that substantially increase costs that the company may not be able to pass along to its customers. Any changes in laws, regulations or standards that would impose additional requirements or restrictions could adversely affect the company’s financial condition and results of operations. In order to meet the continuing challenge of complying with applicable laws and regulations in jurisdictions where it operates, the company is in the midst of to revitalizing and strengthening compliance training, the availability and usage of worldwide compliance reporting systems and compliance auditing/monitoring. The company appointed its general counsel as its chief compliance officer in fiscal 2008 to help organize and lead these compliance efforts. This strengthened compliance program may, from time to time, identify past practices that need to be changed or remediated. Such corrective or remedial measures could involve significant expenditures or lead to changes in operational practices that could adversely affect the company’s financial condition and results of operations. -14- Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The company has not received written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 or more days preceding the end of fiscal year 2008 that remain unresolved. 