Item 1A. Risk Factors. As is the case for any retailer, the Registrant’s success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. However, certain factors are specific to the Registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. The following “risk factors” are specific to the Registrant; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the Registrant will achieve the financial objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) Risk: that challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence continue or worsen over a prolonged period of time and adversely affect the Registrant’s sales. As a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the Registrant’s sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. Consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. Consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the Registrant’s earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. Many of the Registrant’s competitors may continue to react to falling consumer confidence by reducing their retail prices; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the Company’s sales. In addition, some observers believe that the short-term attractiveness of “luxury” goods may have waned in certain markets, thus reducing demand. This could adversely affect the Registrant’s sales and margins. Uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the Registrant to forecast operating results. The Registrant’s forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. Actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) Risk: that sales will decline or remain flat in the Registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. The Registrant’s business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net earnings. Poor sales results during the Registrant’s fourth quarter will have a material adverse effect on the Registrant’s sales and profits. (iii) Risk: that regional instability and conflict will disrupt tourist travel. Unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises which result in military, terrorist or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the Registrant operates retail stores could adversely affect the Registrant’s sales and profits. (iv) Risk: that foreign currencies will weaken against the U.S. dollar and require the Registrant to raise prices or shrink profit margins in locations outside of the U.S. TIFFANY & CO. K - 16 The Registrant operates retail stores and boutiques in various countries outside of the U.S. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Registrant’s sales in those countries represented 46% of its net sales, of which Japan represented 19% of net sales, in Fiscal 2008. A substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar would require the Registrant to raise its retail prices or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the U.S. Consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the Registrant’s goods; thus there is a risk that a substantial weakening of foreign currencies will result in reduced sales or profit margins. (v) Risk: that the Registrant will be unable to continue to offer merchandise designed by Elsa Peretti or Paloma Picasso. The Registrant’s long-standing right to sell the jewelry designs of Elsa Peretti and Paloma Picasso and use their trademarks is responsible for a substantial portion of the Registrant’s revenues. Merchandise designed by Ms. Peretti and by Ms. Picasso accounted for 11% and 3% of Fiscal 2008 net sales. Tiffany has exclusive license arrangements with Ms. Peretti and Ms. Picasso; these arrangements are subject to royalty payments as well as other requirements. Each license may be terminated by Tiffany or the designer on six months notice, even in the case where no default has occurred. Also, no agreements have been made for the continued sale of the designs or use of the trademarks ELSA PERETTI or PALOMA PICASSO following the death of either designer. Loss of either license would materially adversely affect the Registrant’s business through lost sales and profits. (vi) Risk: that changes in prices of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability might adversely affect the Registrant’s ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. Most of the Registrant’s jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. A significant change in the prices of these commodities could adversely affect the Registrant’s business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. A substantial increase in the price of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could lead to decreased customer demand and lost sales and/or reduced gross profit margins. Conversely, a decrease in the prices of raw materials could have a disruptive effect, negatively or positively, on sales demand and short-term margins. Acquiring diamonds for the engagement business has, at times, been difficult because of supply limitations; Tiffany may not be able to maintain a comprehensive selection of diamonds in each retail location due to the broad assortment of sizes, colors, clarity grades and cuts demanded by customers. A substantial increase or decrease in the supply of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could lead to decreased customer demand and lost sales and/or reduced gross profit margins. If trade relationships between the Registrant and one or more of its significant vendors were disrupted, the Registrant’s sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. (vii) Risk: that the value of the TIFFANY & CO. trademark will decline due to the sale of counterfeit merchandise by infringers. The TIFFANY & CO. trademark is an asset which is essential to the competitiveness and success of the Registrant’s business and the Registrant takes appropriate action to protect it. TIFFANY & CO. K - 17 Tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. However, the Registrant’s enforcement actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeit of the Registrant’s merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods remain available in many markets. In recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers, as well as on the Internet. The continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the TIFFANY & CO. brand by undermining Tiffany’s reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. Damage to the brand would result in lost sales and profits. (viii) Risk: that the Registrant will be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. The Registrant, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. If the Registrant cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desirable luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and profits will be jeopardized. In Japan, many of the retail locations are located in department stores. TIFFANY & CO. boutiques located in department stores in Japan represented 79% of net sales in Japan and 15% of consolidated net sales in Fiscal 2008. In recent years, the Japanese department store industry has, in general, suffered declining sales and there is a risk that such financial difficulties will force further consolidations or store closings. Should one or more Japanese department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a TIFFANY & CO. boutique, the Registrant’s sales and profits would be reduced while alternate premises were being obtained. The Registrant’s commercial relationships with department stores in Japan, and their abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to be substantial factors in the Registrant’s continued success in Japan. (ix) Risk: that the Registrant’s business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand. The TIFFANY & CO. brand’s association with quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of the Registrant’s business. The Registrant’s expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the brand’s appeal. Consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the TIFFANY & CO. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand and tarnishing its image. This would result in lower sales and profits. (x) Risk: that the current volatile global economy may have a material adverse effect on the Registrant’s liquidity and capital resources. U.S. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses, including the Registrant, to obtain financing on acceptable terms. A prolonged downturn in the economy, extending further than those included in management’s projections, could have an effect on the Registrant’s cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing, and could make it more difficult for the Registrant to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. In addition, increased disruption in the markets could lead to the failure of financial institutions. If any of the banks participating in the Registrant’s revolving credit facility were to declare bankruptcy, the Registrant would no longer have access to those committed funds. TIFFANY & CO. K - 18 Further deterioration in the stock market could continue to negatively impact the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. NONE 