Item 1A. Risk Factors. As a jeweler and specialty retailer, the Registrant’s success in achieving its objectives and expectations is partially dependent upon economic conditions, competitive developments and consumer attitudes, including changes in consumer preferences for certain jewelry styles and materials. However, certain assumptions are specific to the Registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. The following assumptions, among others, are “risk factors” which could affect the likelihood that the Registrant will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) that low or negative growth in the economy or in the financial markets, particularly in the U.S. and Japan, will not occur and reduce discretionary spending on goods that are, or are perceived to be, “luxuries”; (ii) that consumer spending does not decline substantially during the fourth quarter of any year; (iii) that unsettled regional and/or global conflicts or crises do not result in military, terrorist or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the Registrant operates retail stores nor to the Registrant’s continuing ability to operate in those regions; (iv) that sales in Japan will not decline substantially; (v) that there will not be a substantial adverse change in the exchange relationship between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar; (vi) that Mitsukoshi and other department store operators in Japan, in the face of declining or stagnant department store sales, will not close or consolidate stores which have TIFFANY & CO. retail locations; (vii) that Mitsukoshi will continue as a leading department store operator in Japan; (viii) that existing product supply arrangements, including license arrangements with third-party designers Elsa Peretti and Paloma Picasso, will continue; (ix) that the wholesale and retail market for high-quality rough and cut diamonds will provide continuity of supply and pricing within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand; (x) that the Registrant’s diamond supply initiatives achieve their financial and strategic objectives; (xi) that the Registrant’s gross margins in Japan and for diamond products can be maintained in the face of increased competition from traditional and e-commerce retailers; (xii) that the Registrant is able to pass on higher costs of raw materials to consumers through price increases; (xiii) that the sale of counterfeit products does not significantly undermine the value of the Registrant’s trademarks and demand for the Registrant’s products; (xiv) that new and existing stores and other sales locations can be leased, re-leased or otherwise obtained on suitable terms in desired markets and that construction can be completed on a timely basis; t i f f a n y & c o . K - 1 8 (xv) that the Registrant can achieve satisfactory results from any current and future businesses into which it enters that are operated under trademarks or tradenames other than TIFFANY & CO.; and (xvi) that the Registrant’s expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management can continue to be executed without meaningfully diminishing the distinctive appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. NONE 