Item 1A. Risk Factors. ------------ Certain statements contained in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Business", including statements concerning the Company's future prospects and the Company's future cash flow requirements are forward looking statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projections in the forward looking statements which statements involve risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the factors set forth below. Dependence Upon Key Personnel. The Company is dependent on its Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, Joseph Hughes. The Company does not currently have an employment agreement with Mr. Hughes. The Company is also dependent on certain of its account executives who are responsible for servicing its principal customers and attracting new customers. The Company does not have employment contracts with these persons. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its existing personnel or find and attract additional qualified employees. The loss of the services of any of these personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Dependence on Significant Customers. In the fiscal year, ended May 31, 2007, the Company's largest clients, Procurestaff Ltd. and Ensemble-Chimes accounted for 19.1% and 11.3% of the Company's consolidated revenues, respectively. Procurestaff and Ensemble-Chimes are vendor management companies. In excess of 90% of the revenues received from Procurestaff relate to a single customer, AT&T, while in excess of 90% of the revenues received from Ensemble-Chimes were derived from two customers which individually did not exceed 10% of revenues. The New York City Department of Education (DOE) accounted for 13.0% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006 and 4.3% in fiscal 2007. The last remaining consultants on billing with the DOE were terminated in April 2007. Client contract terms vary depending on the nature of the engagement, and there can be no assurance that a client will renew a contract when it terminates. In addition, the Company's contracts are generally cancelable by the client at any time on short notice, and clients may unilaterally reduce their use of the Company's services under such contracts without penalty. See "Rapidly Changing Industry" below. Competitive Market for Technical Personnel. The Company's success is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified computer professionals to provide as temporary personnel to its clients. Competition for the limited number of qualified professionals with a working knowledge of certain sophisticated computer languages, which the Company requires for its contract computer services business, is intense. The Company believes that there is a shortage of, and significant competition for, software professionals with the skills and experience necessary to perform the services offered by the Company. The Company's ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business in its contract computer programming business depends, in large part, on its ability to hire and retain technical personnel with the IT skills that keep pace with continuing changes in software evolution, industry standards and technologies, and client preferences. Although the Company generally has been successful in attracting employees with the skills needed to fulfill customer engagements, demand for qualified professionals conversant with certain technologies may outstrip supply as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving computer technology or as competition for technical personnel increases. Increasing demand for qualified personnel could also result in increased expenses to hire and retain qualified technical personnel and could adversely affect the Company's profit margins. Competitive Market for Account Executives and Technical Recruiters The Company has been seeking to hire qualified account executives and technical recruiters to meet competition and promote growth. The Company faces a highly competitive market for the limited number of qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in hiring such personnel. Page 6 Rapidly Changing Industry The computer industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. These include the overall increase in the sophistication and interdependency of computer technology and a focus by IT managers on cost-efficient solutions. Recently, there has been an increased focus on the Internet and e-Commerce and there has been a shift away from mainframe legacy systems. Historically, much of the Company's staffing services has related to mainframe legacy systems. There can be no assurance that these changes will not adversely affect demand for technical staffing services. Organizations may elect to perform such services in-house or outsource such functions to companies that do not utilize temporary staffing, such as that provided by the Company. There have also been recent changes in the industry, which could potentially affect the Company's operating results. Many customers have begun retaining third parties to provide vendor management services. The third party is then responsible for retaining companies to provide temporary IT personnel. This results in the Company contracting with such third parties and not directly with the ultimate customer. This change weakens the Company's relationship with its customer, which makes it more difficult for the Company to maintain and expand its business. It also reduces the Company's profit margins. Additionally, a number of companies have begun limiting the number of companies on their approved vendor lists, and in some cases this has required the Company to sub-contract with a company on the approved vendor list to provide services to customers. The staffing industry has also experienced margin erosion caused by this increased competition, and customers leveraging their buying power by consolidating the number of vendors with which they deal. In addition to these factors, there has been intense price competition in the area of IT staffing, pressure on billing rates and pressure by customers for discounts. The Company cannot predict at this time what long-term effect these changes will have on the Company's business and results of operations. Effect of Fluctuations in Economic Conditions Demand for the Company's IT staffing services is significantly affected by the general economic environment. During periods of slowing economic activity, customers may reduce their IT projects and their demand for outside consultants. As a result, any significant economic downturn could have material adverse affect on the Company's results of operations. The Company attributes a significant portion of its decline in revenues to customers reducing their spending on IT projects as a result of the economic environment. The current trend of companies moving technology jobs and projects offshore has caused and could continue to cause revenues to decline. In the past few years, more companies are using or are considering using low cost offshore outsourcing centers, particularly in India, to perform technology related work and projects. This trend has contributed to the decline in domestic IT staffing revenue. There can be no assurance that this trend will not continue to adversely impact the Company's IT staffing revenues. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results. The Company's revenues and operating results are subject to significant variations from quarter to quarter. Revenues are subject to fluctuation based upon a number of factors, including the timing and number of client projects commenced and completed during the quarter, delays incurred in connection with projects, the growth rate of the market for contract computer programming services and general economic conditions. Unanticipated termination of a project or the decision by a client not to proceed to the next stage of a project anticipated by the Company could result in decreased revenues and lower utilization rates which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. Compensation levels can be impacted by a variety of factors, including competition for highly skilled employees and inflation. The Company's operating results are also subject to fluctuation as a result of other factors. Intellectual Property Rights. The Company relies primarily upon a combination of trade secret, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements to protect its proprietary rights. The Company generally enters into confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, clients and potential clients and limits access to and distribution of its proprietary information. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of its proprietary information or that the Company will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. Page 7 Competition. The technical staffing industry is highly competitive and fragmented and has low barriers to entry. The Company competes for potential clients with providers of outsourcing services, systems integrators, computer systems consultants, other providers of technical staffing services and, to a lesser extent, temporary personnel agencies. The Company competes for technical personnel with other providers of technical staffing services, systems integrators, providers of outsourcing services, computer systems consultants, clients and temporary personnel agencies. Many of the Company's competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in obtaining and retaining clients are accurate assessment of clients' requirements, timely assignment of technical employees with appropriate skills and the price of services. The principal competitive factors in attracting qualified technical personnel are compensation, availability, quality and variety of projects and schedule flexibility. The Company believes that many of the technical personnel included in its database may also be pursuing other employment opportunities. Therefore, the Company believes that its responsiveness to the needs of technical personnel is an important factor in the Company's ability to fill projects. Although the Company believes it competes favorably with respect to these factors, it expects competition to increase, and there can be no assurance that the Company will remain competitive. Potential for Contract and Other Liability. The personnel provided by the Company to clients provide services involving key aspects of its clients' software applications. A failure in providing these services could result in a claim for substantial damages against the Company, regardless of the Company's responsibility for such failure. The Company attempts to limit, contractually, its liability for damages arising from negligence or omissions in rendering services, but it is not always successful in negotiating such limits. Despite this precaution, there can be no assurance that the limitations of liability set forth in its contracts would be enforceable or would otherwise protect the Company from liability for damages. The Company's contract computer programming services business involves assigning technical personnel to the workplace of the client, typically under the client's supervision. Although the Company has little control over the client's workplace, the Company may be exposed to claims of discrimination and harassment and other similar claims as a result of inappropriate actions allegedly taken against technical personnel by clients. As an employer, the Company is also exposed to other possible employment-related claims. The Company is exposed to liability with respect to actions taken by its technical personnel while on a project, such as damages caused by technical personnel, errors, and misuse of client proprietary information or theft of client property. To reduce such exposures, the Company maintains insurance policies and a fidelity bond covering general liability, worker's compensation claims, errors and omissions and employee theft. In certain instances, the Company indemnifies its clients from the foregoing and claims have been made against the Company. Certain of these cost and liabilities are not covered by insurance. There can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available and at its current price or that it will be adequate to, or will, cover any such liability. Voting Power of Major Shareholder Joseph F. Hughes and members of his family own Common Stock, representing approximately 39% of the Company's voting power as of July 31, 2007. As such, Joseph Hughes has significant voting power on all matters submitted to a vote of the Company's common shareholders. Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions May Inhibit a Change of Control In addition to the significant ownership of Common Stock by Joseph F. Hughes, certain provisions of the Company's charter and by-laws may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for the Company and may thereby inhibit a change in control of the Company under circumstances that could give the holders of Common Stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices. Such provisions include a classified Board of Directors, advance notice requirements for nomination of directors and certain shareholder proposals set forth in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws. Page 8 New Classes and Series of Stock The Company's charter authorizes the Board of Directors to create new classes and series of preferred stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any such classes and series without further action of the shareholders. The issuance of additional classes or series of Capital Stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company. The Company's Stock Price Could Be Extremely Volatile And, As A Result, Investors May Not Be Able To Resell Their Shares At Or Above The Price They Paid For Them. Among the factors that could affect the Company's stock price are: - - limited float and a low average daily trading volume; - - industry trends and the performance of the Company's customers; - - fluctuations in the Company's results of operations; - - litigation; and - - general market conditions. The stock market has and may in the future experience extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - None ------------------------- 