Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks that are highlighted below are not the only ones that we face. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. The bearing industry is highly competitive, and this competition results in significant pricing pressure for our products that could affect our revenues and profitability. The global bearing industry is highly competitive. We compete with domestic manufacturers and many foreign manufacturers of anti-friction bearings, including SKF Group, Schaeffler Group, NTN Corporation, JTEKT and NSK Ltd. The bearing industry is also capital intensive and profitability is dependent on factors such as labor compensation and productivity and inventory management, which are subject to risks that we may not be able to control. Due to the competitiveness within the bearing industry, we may not be able to increase prices for our products to cover increases in our costs. In many cases we face pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, our customers may choose to purchase products from one of our competitors rather than pay the prices we seek for our products, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Competition and consolidation in the steel industry, together with potential global overcapacity, could result in significant pricing pressure for our products. Competition within the steel industry, both domestically and worldwide, is intense and is expected to remain so. Global production overcapacity has occurred in the recent past and may recur in the future, which would exert downward pressure on domestic steel prices and result in, at times, a dramatic narrowing, or with many companies the elimination, of gross margins. High levels of steel imports into the United States could exacerbate this pressure on domestic steel prices. In addition, many of our competitors are continuously exploring and implementing strategies, including acquisitions and the addition or repositioning of capacity, which focus on manufacturing higher margin products that compete more directly with our steel products. Depending upon prevailing market conditions in the United States and abroad, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, and other similar variables beyond our control, import activity into the United States and/or domestic production could continue to increase. These factors could lead to significant downward pressure on prices for our steel products or a reduction in sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our business is capital intensive, and if there are downturns in the industries that we serve, we may be forced to significantly curtail or suspend operations with respect to those industries, which could result in our recording asset impairment charges or taking other measures that may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. Our business operations are capital intensive, and we devote a significant amount of capital to certain industries. If there are downturns in the industries that we serve, we may be forced to significantly curtail or suspend our operations with respect to those industries, including laying-off employees, recording asset impairment charges and other measures, which may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. 7Table of ContentsWeakness in global economic conditions or in any of the industries or geographic regions in which we or our customers operate, as well as the cyclical nature of our customers' businesses generally or sustained uncertainty in financial markets, could adversely impact our revenues and profitability by reducing demand and margins. Our results of operations may be materially affected by the conditions in the global economy generally and in global capital markets. There has been extreme volatility in the capital markets and in the end markets and geographic regions in which we and our customers operate, which has negatively affected our revenues. Our revenues may also be negatively affected by changes in customer demand, additional changes in the product mix and negative pricing pressure in the industries in which we operate. Margins in those industries are highly sensitive to demand cycles, and our customers in those industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. As a result, our revenues and earnings are impacted by overall levels of industrial production. Our results of operations may be materially affected by the conditions in the global financial markets or in any of the geographic regions in which we operate. If an end user cannot obtain financing to purchase our products, either directly or indirectly contained in machinery or equipment, demand for our products will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. If a customer becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover accounts receivable from that customer would be adversely affected and any payment we received during the preference period prior to a bankruptcy filing may be potentially recoverable by the bankruptcy estate. Furthermore, if certain of our customers liquidate in bankruptcy, we may incur impairment charges relating to obsolete inventory and machinery and equipment. In addition, financial instability of certain companies in the supply chain could disrupt production in any particular industry. A disruption of production in any of the industries where we participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. Any change in the operation of our raw material surcharge mechanisms, a raw material market index or the availability or cost of raw materials and energy resources could materially affect our revenues and earnings. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including scrap metal and alloys and natural gas to operate our business. Many of our customer contracts contain surcharge pricing provisions. The surcharges are generally tied to a widely-available market index for that specific raw material. Recently many of the widely-available raw material market indices have experienced wide fluctuations. Any change in a raw material market index could materially affect our revenues. Any change in the relationship between the market indices and our underlying costs could materially affect our earnings. Any change in our projected year-end input costs could materially affect our last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory valuation method and earnings. Moreover, future disruptions in the supply of our raw materials or energy resources could impair our ability to manufacture our products for our customers or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain these raw materials or energy resources from other sources, and could thereby affect our sales and profitability. Any increase in the prices for such raw materials or energy resources could materially affect our costs and therefore our earnings. Warranty, recall or product liability claims could materially adversely affect our earnings. In our business, we are exposed to warranty and product liability claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in the recall of a product. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 8Table of ContentsWe may incur further impairment and restructuring charges that could materially affect our profitability. We have taken $262.5 million in impairment and restructuring charges during the last five years. Changes in business or economic conditions, or our business strategy, may result in additional restructuring programs and may require us to take additional charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Environmental laws and regulations impose substantial costs and limitations on our operations and environmental compliance may be more costly than we expect. We are subject to the risk of substantial environmental liability and limitations on our operations due to environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning matters such as air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste handling and disposal and the investigation and remediation of contamination. The risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to compliance with these laws and regulations are an inherent part of our business, and future conditions may develop, arise or be discovered that create substantial environmental compliance or remediation liabilities and costs. Compliance with environmental, health and safety legislation and regulatory requirements may prove to be more limiting and costly than we anticipate. To date, we have committed significant expenditures in our efforts to achieve and maintain compliance with these requirements at our facilities, and we expect that we will continue to make significant expenditures related to such compliance in the future. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings brought by private parties or governmental authorities with respect to environmental matters, including matters involving alleged property damage or personal injury. New laws and regulations, including those which may relate to emissions of greenhouse gases, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Unexpected equipment failures or other disruptions of our operations may increase our costs and reduce our sales and earnings due to production curtailments or shutdowns. Interruptions in production capabilities, especially in our Steel segment, would inevitably increase our production costs and reduce sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities and information technology systems are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers, and this equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. In the future, we may experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of these types of equipment failures.The Company may be subject to risks relating to its information technology systems.The Company relies on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and manage and operate its business. A breach in security could expose the Company and its customers and suppliers to risks of misuse of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, production downtimes and operations disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect the Company's reputation, competitive position, business or results of operations. 9Table of ContentsThe global nature of our business exposes us to foreign currency fluctuations that may affect our asset values, results of operations and competitiveness. We are exposed to the risks of currency exchange rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our net sales, costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These risks include a reduction in our asset values, net sales, operating income and competitiveness. For those countries outside the United States where we have significant sales, devaluation in the local currency would reduce the value of our local inventory as presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, a stronger U.S. dollar would result in reduced revenue, operating profit and shareholders' equity due to the impact of foreign exchange translation on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may make our products more expensive for others to purchase or increase our operating costs, affecting our competitiveness and our profitability. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and volatile economic, political and market conditions in emerging market countries have in the past adversely affected our financial performance and may in the future adversely affect the value of our assets located outside the United States, our gross profit and our results of operations. Global political instability and other risks of international operations may adversely affect our operating costs, revenues and the price of our products. Our international operations expose us to risks not present in a purely domestic business, including primarily: •changes in tariff regulations, which may make our products more costly to export or import; •difficulties establishing and maintaining relationships with local OEMs, distributors and dealers; •import and export licensing requirements; •compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and environmental or other regulatory requirements, which could increase our operating and other expenses and limit our operations; •disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations; and •tax exposures related to cross-border intercompany transfer pricing and other tax risks unique to international operations. These and other risks may also increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products in the markets in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. The underfunded status of our defined benefit and other postretirement plans has caused and may in the future cause a significant reduction in our shareholders' equity. We recorded a decrease in shareholders' equity related to pension and postretirement benefit liabilities in 2012 primarily due to a decrease in discount rates, partially offset by higher than expected returns on pension and postretirement assets. In the future, we may be required to record additional charges related to pension and other postretirement liabilities as a result of asset returns, discount rate changes or other actuarial adjustments. These charges may be significant and would cause a significant reduction in our shareholders' equity. 10Table of ContentsThe underfunded status of our pension plans may require large contributions which may divert funds from other uses. The underfunded status of our pension plans may require us to make large contributions to such plans. We made cash contributions of approximately $326 million, $291 million and $230 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, to our defined benefit pension plans and currently expect to make cash contributions of approximately $250 million in 2013 to such plans. However, we cannot predict whether changing economic conditions, the future performance of assets in the plans or other factors will lead us or require us to make contributions in excess of our current expectations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. Our defined benefit plans' assets and liabilities are substantial and expenses and contributions related to those plans are affected by factors outside our control, including the performance of plan assets, interest rates, actuarial data and experience, and changes in laws and regulations. Our defined benefit pension plans had assets with an estimated value of approximately $3.1 billion and liabilities with an estimated value of approximately $3.5 billion, both as of December 31, 2012. Our future expense and funding obligations for the defined benefit pension plans depend upon a number of factors, including the level of benefits provided for by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine the discount rate to calculate the amount of liabilities, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. In addition, if the various investments held by our pension trusts do not perform as expected or the liabilities increase as a result of discount rates and other actuarial changes, our pension expense and required contributions would increase and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business. Due to the value of our defined benefit plan assets and liabilities, even a minor decrease in interest rates, to the extent not offset by contributions or asset returns, could increase our obligations under such plans. We may be legally required to make contributions to the pension plans in the future in excess of our current expectations, and those contributions could be material. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations, reduce our revenues and materially affect our earnings. A work stoppage at one or more of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, if one or more of our customers were to experience a work stoppage, that customer would likely halt or limit purchases of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations that could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. We are subject to a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, U.S. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices. We are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. Compliance with the laws and regulations described above or with other applicable foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations currently in effect or that may be adopted in the future could materially adversely affect our competitive position, operating results, financial condition, and liquidity. 11Table of ContentsIf we are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business could be materially adversely affected. Our business substantially depends on the continued service of key members of our management. The loss of the services of a significant number of members of our management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, such as engineering, finance, marketing and senior management professionals. Competition for these employees is intense, and we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting new high quality employees, our business could be materially adversely affected. We may not realize the improved operating results that we anticipate from past and future acquisitions and we may experience difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. We seek to grow, in part, through strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, which are intended to complement or expand our businesses, and expect to continue to do so in the future. These acquisitions involve challenges and risks. In the event that we do not successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operating results depend in part on continued successful research, development and marketing of new and/or improved products and services, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully introduce new products and services. The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected, to varying degrees, by technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which could result in unpredictable product transitions or shortened life cycles. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production, or marketing of new products and services which may prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. The end result could be a negative impact on our operating results.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.12Table of Contents