Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and result of operations. The risks that are highlighted below are not the only ones that we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. The bearing industry is highly competitive, and this competition results in significant pricing pressure for our products that could affect our revenues and profitability. The global bearing industry is highly competitive. We compete with domestic manufacturers and many foreign manufacturers of anti-friction bearings, including SKF, INA, NTN, Koyo and NSK. The bearing industry is also capital-intensive and profitability is dependent on factors such as labor compensation and productivity and inventory management, which are subject to risks that we may not be able to control. Due to the competitiveness within the bearing industry, we may not be able to increase prices for our products to cover increases in our costs and, in many cases, we may face pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Competition and consolidation in the steel industry, together with potential global overcapacity, could result in significant pricing pressure for our products. Competition within the steel industry, both domestically and worldwide, is intense and is expected to remain so. Global production overcapacity has occurred in the past and may reoccur in the future, which, when combined with high levels of steel imports into the United States, may exert downward pressure on domestic steel prices and result in, at times, a dramatic narrowing, or with many companies the elimination, of gross margins. In addition, many of our competitors are continuously exploring and implementing strategies, including acquisitions, which focus on manufacturing higher margin products that compete more directly with our steel products. These factors could lead to significant downward pressure on prices for our steel products, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from, or successfully execute, Project ONE. During 2005, we began implementing Project ONE, a five-year program designed to improve business processes and systems to deliver enhanced customer service and financial performance. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from or successfully execute this program. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to improve our business processes and systems. We may not be able to successfully do so without substantial costs, delays or other difficulties. We may face significant challenges in improving our systems and processes in a timely and efficient manner. 8 THE TIMKEN COMPANY Table of Contents Risk Factors (continued) Implementing Project ONE will be complex and time-consuming, may be distracting to management and disruptive to our businesses, and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our businesses as a result of a number of obstacles, such as: • the loss of key associates or customers, • the failure to maintain the quality of customer service that we have historically provided; • the need to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and • the resulting diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business and the need to dedicate additional management personnel to address obstacles to the implementation of Project ONE. If we are not successful in executing Project ONE, or if it fails to achieve the anticipated results, then our operations, margins, sales and reputation could be adversely affected. Any change in the operation of our raw material surcharge mechanisms or the availability or cost of raw materials and energy resources could materially affect our earnings. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including scrap metal and alloys and natural gas to operate our business. Many of our customer contracts contain surcharge pricing provisions. The surcharges are tied to a widely-available market index for that specific raw material. Any change in the relationship between the market indices and our underlying costs could materially affect our earnings. Moreover, future disruptions in the supply of our raw materials or energy resources could impair our ability to manufacture our products for our customers or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain these raw materials or energy resources from other sources, and could thereby affect our sales and profitability. Any increase in the prices for such raw materials or energy resources could materially affect our costs and therefore our earnings. The failure to achieve the anticipated results of our Automotive Group restructuring could materially adversely affect our earnings. During 2005, we began restructuring our Automotive Group operations to address challenges in the automotive markets. We expect that this restructuring will cost approximately $80 million to $90 million and we are targeting annual savings of approximately $40 million by the end of 2007. The failure to achieve the anticipated results of our Automotive Group restructuring, including our targeted annual savings, could adversely affect our earnings. The failure to achieve the anticipated results of our Canton bearing operation rationalization initiative could materially adversely affect our earnings. After reaching a new four-year agreement with the union representing employees in the Canton, Ohio bearing and steel plants, we refined our plans to rationalize our Canton bearing operations. We expect that this rationalization initiative will cost approximately $35 million to $40 million over the next four years and we are targeting annual savings of approximately $25 million. The failure to achieve the anticipated results of this initiative, including our targeted annual savings, could adversely affect our earnings. We may incur further impairment and restructuring charges that could negatively affect our profitability. We have taken approximately $26.1 million in impairment and restructuring charges for our Automotive Group restructuring and the rationalization of our Canton bearing operations during 2005 and expect to take additional charges in connection with these initiatives. Changes in business or economic conditions, or our business strategy may result in additional restructuring programs and may require us to take additional charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. THE TIMKEN COMPANY 9 Table of Contents Risk Factors (continued) Expiration of antidumping orders may materially adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has eight antidumping duty orders in effect covering ball bearings from six countries, tapered roller bearings from China and spherical plain bearings from France. The company is a producer of these products in the United States. The U.S. government is currently conducting five-year sunset reviews on each of these eight antidumping duty orders in order to determine whether or not each should remain in effect for an additional five years. Decisions are expected by July of 2006. If any of these antidumping orders are revoked and conditions of fair trade in the United States deteriorate, we may experience significant downward pressure on prices for our bearing products, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Any reduction of CDSOA distributions in the future would reduce our earnings. CDSOA provides for distribution of monies collected by U.S. Customs from antidumping cases to qualifying domestic producers where the domestic producers have continued to invest in their technology, equipment and people. The company reported CDSOA receipts, net of expenses, of $77.1 million, $44.4 million, and $65.6 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In February 2006, U.S. legislation was enacted that would end CDSOA distributions for imports covered by antidumping duty orders entering the U.S. after September 30, 2007. Instead, any such antidumping duties collected would remain with the U.S. Treasury. This legislation is not expected to have a significant effect on potential CDSOA distributions in 2006 or 2007, but would be expected to reduce likely distributions in years beyond 2007, with distributions eventually ceasing. Additionally, there are a number of factors that can affect whether the company receives any CDSOA distributions and the amount of such distributions in any year. These factors include, among other things, potential additional changes in the law, ongoing and potential additional legal challenges to the law, the administrative operation of the law and the status of the underlying antidumping orders. Any reduction of CDSOA distributions would reduce our earnings. Weakness in any of the industries in which our customers operate, as well as the cyclical nature of our customers’ businesses generally, could adversely impact our revenues and profitability by reducing demand and margins. Our revenues may be negatively affected by changes in customer demand, changes in the product mix and negative pricing pressure in the industries in which we operate. Many of the industries in which our end customers operate are cyclical. Margins in those industries are highly sensitive to demand cycles, and our customers in those industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. As a result, our business is also cyclical and our revenues and earnings are impacted by overall levels of industrial production. Certain automotive industry companies have recently experienced significant financial downturns. In 2005 we increased our reserve for accounts receivable relating to our automotive industry customers. If any of our automotive industry customers becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover accounts receivable from that customer would be adversely affected and any payment we received in the preference period prior to a bankruptcy filing may be potentially recoverable. In addition, financial instability of certain companies that participate in the automotive industry supply chain could disrupt production in the industry. A disruption of production in the automotive industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. Unexpected equipment failures or other disruptions of our operations may increase our costs and reduce our sales and earnings due to production curtailments or shutdowns. Interruptions in production capabilities, especially in our Steel Group, would inevitably increase our production costs and reduce sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers, and this equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. In the future, we may experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of these types of equipment failures. 10 THE TIMKEN COMPANY Table of Contents Risk Factors (continued) The global nature of our business exposes us to foreign currency fluctuations that may affect our asset values, results of operations and competitiveness. We are exposed to the risks of currency exchange rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our net sales, costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These risks include a reduction in our asset values, net sales, operating income and competitiveness. For those countries outside the United States where we have significant sales, devaluation in the local currency would reduce the value of our local inventory as presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, a stronger U.S. dollar would result in reduced revenue, operating profit and shareholders’ equity due to the impact of foreign exchange translation on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may make our products more expensive for others to purchase or increase our operating costs, affecting our competitiveness and our profitability. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and volatile economic, political and market conditions in emerging market countries have in the past adversely affected our financial performance and may in the future adversely affect the value of our assets located outside the United States, our gross profit and our results of operations. Global political instability and other risks of international operations may adversely affect our operating costs, revenues and the price of our products. Our international operations expose us to risks not present in a purely domestic business, including primarily: • changes in tariff regulations, which may make our products more costly to export or import; • difficulties establishing and maintaining relationships with local OEMs, distributors and dealers; • import and export licensing requirements; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and environmental or other regulatory requirements, which could increase our operating and other expenses and limit our operations; and • difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations. These and other risks may also increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products in the markets in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Underfunding of our pension fund assets has caused and may continue to cause a significant reduction in our shareholders’ equity. As a result of the underfunded status of our pension fund assets, we were required to take total net charges of $245.6 million, net of income taxes, against our shareholders’ equity over the last four years. We may be required to take further charges related to pension liabilities in the future and these charges may be significant. The underfunded status of our pension fund assets will cause us to prepay the funding of our pension obligations which may divert funds from other uses. The increase in our defined benefit pension obligations, as well as our ongoing practice of managing our funding obligations over time, have led us to prepay a portion of our funding obligations under our pension plans. We made cash contributions of $226 million, $185 million and $169 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, to our U.S.-based pension plans and currently expect to make cash contributions of $150 million in 2006 to such plans. However, we cannot predict whether changing economic conditions or other factors will lead us or require us to make contributions in excess of our current expectations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. Moreover, legislation has been proposed which, if enacted, may require us to significantly increase our contributions to our pension funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, this legislation may require us to reevaluate our method of funding pensions in the long-term. Strikes or work stoppages by our unionized associates could disrupt our manufacturing operations, reduce our revenues or increase our labor costs. Approximately 20% of our U.S. associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Any potential strikes or work stoppages, and the resulting adverse impact on our relationships with customers, could disrupt our manufacturing operations, reduce our revenue or increase our labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. THE TIMKEN COMPANY 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 