Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks that are highlighted below are not the only ones that we face. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. Risk Relating to our BusinessThe bearing industry is highly competitive, and this competition results in significant pricing pressure for our products that could affect our revenues and profitability. The global bearing industry is highly competitive. We compete with domestic manufacturers and many foreign manufacturers of anti-friction bearings, including SKF Group, the Schaeffler Group, NTN Corporation, JTEKT and NSK Ltd. The bearing industry is also capital intensive and profitability is dependent on factors such as labor compensation and productivity and inventory management, which are subject to risks that we may not be able to control. Due to the competitiveness within the bearing industry, we may not be able to increase prices for our products to cover increases in our costs. In many cases we face pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, our customers may choose to purchase products from one of our competitors rather than pay the prices we seek for our products, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Competition and consolidation in the steel industry, together with potential global overcapacity, could result in significant pricing pressure for our products. Competition within the steel industry, both domestically and worldwide, is intense and is expected to remain so. Global production overcapacity has occurred in the recent past and may recur in the future, which would exert downward pressure on domestic steel prices and result in, at times, a dramatic narrowing, or with many companies the elimination, of gross margins. High levels of steel imports into the United States could exacerbate this pressure on domestic steel prices. In addition, many of our competitors are continuously exploring and implementing strategies, including acquisitions and the addition or repositioning of capacity, which focus on manufacturing higher margin products that compete more directly with our steel products. Depending upon prevailing market conditions in the United States and abroad, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, and other similar variables beyond our control, import activity into the United States and/or domestic production could continue to increase. These factors could lead to significant downward pressure on prices for our steel products or a reduction in sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our business is capital intensive, and if there are downturns in the industries that we serve, we may be forced to significantly curtail or suspend operations with respect to those industries, which could result in our recording asset impairment charges or taking other measures that may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. Our business operations are capital intensive, and we devote a significant amount of capital to certain industries. If there are downturns in the industries that we serve, we may be forced to significantly curtail or suspend our operations with respect to those industries, including laying-off employees, recording asset impairment charges and other measures, which may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. 7Table of ContentsWeakness in global economic conditions or in any of the industries or geographic regions in which we or our customers operate, as well as the cyclical nature of our customers' businesses generally or sustained uncertainty in financial markets, could adversely impact our revenues and profitability by reducing demand and margins. Our results of operations may be materially affected by the conditions in the global economy generally and in global capital markets. There has been extreme volatility in the capital markets and in the end markets and geographic regions in which we and our customers operate, which has negatively affected our revenues. Our revenues may also be negatively affected by changes in customer demand, additional changes in the product mix and negative pricing pressure in the industries in which we operate. Margins in those industries are highly sensitive to demand cycles, and our customers in those industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. As a result, our revenues and earnings are impacted by overall levels of industrial production. Our results of operations may be materially affected by the conditions in the global financial markets or in any of the geographic regions in which we operate. If an end user cannot obtain financing to purchase our products, either directly or indirectly contained in machinery or equipment, demand for our products will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. If a customer becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover accounts receivable from that customer would be adversely affected and any payment we received during the preference period prior to a bankruptcy filing may be potentially recoverable by the bankruptcy estate. Furthermore, if certain of our customers liquidate in bankruptcy, we may incur impairment charges relating to obsolete inventory and machinery and equipment. In addition, financial instability of certain companies in the supply chain could disrupt production in any particular industry. A disruption of production in any of the industries where we participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. Any change in the operation of our raw material surcharge mechanisms, a raw material market index or the availability or cost of raw materials and energy resources could materially affect our revenues and earnings. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including scrap metal and alloys and natural gas to operate our business. Many of our customer contracts contain surcharge pricing provisions. The surcharges are generally tied to a widely-available market index for that specific raw material. Recently many of the widely-available raw material market indices have experienced wide fluctuations. Any change in a raw material market index could materially affect our revenues. Any change in the relationship between the market indices and our underlying costs could materially affect our earnings. Any change in our projected year-end input costs could materially affect our last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory valuation method and earnings. Moreover, future disruptions in the supply of our raw materials or energy resources could impair our ability to manufacture our products for our customers or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain these raw materials or energy resources from other sources, and could thereby affect our sales and profitability. Any increase in the prices for such raw materials or energy resources could materially affect our costs and therefore our earnings. Warranty, recall, quality or product liability claims could materially adversely affect our earnings. In our business, we are exposed to warranty and product liability claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in the recall of a product. If we fail to meet customer specifications for their products, we may be subject to product quality costs and claims. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 8Table of ContentsWe may incur further impairment and restructuring charges that could materially affect our profitability. We have taken $246.1 million in impairment and restructuring charges during the last five years. Changes in business or economic conditions, or our business strategy, may result in additional restructuring programs and may require us to take additional charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Environmental laws and regulations impose substantial costs and limitations on our operations and environmental compliance may be more costly than we expect. We are subject to the risk of substantial environmental liability and limitations on our operations due to environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning matters such as air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste handling and disposal and the investigation and remediation of contamination. The risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to compliance with these laws and regulations are an inherent part of our business, and future conditions may develop, arise or be discovered that create substantial environmental compliance or remediation liabilities and costs. Compliance with environmental, health and safety legislation and regulatory requirements may prove to be more limiting and costly than we anticipate. To date, we have committed significant expenditures in our efforts to achieve and maintain compliance with these requirements at our facilities, and we expect that we will continue to make significant expenditures related to such compliance in the future. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings brought by private parties or governmental authorities with respect to environmental matters, including matters involving alleged noncompliance with or liability under environmental, health and safety laws, property damage or personal injury. New laws and regulations, including those which may relate to emissions of greenhouse gases, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Unexpected equipment failures or other disruptions of our operations may increase our costs and reduce our sales and earnings due to production curtailments or shutdowns. Interruptions in production capabilities, especially in our Steel segment, would likely increase our production costs and reduce sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities and information technology systems are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment for which there may be only limited or no production alternatives, such as furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers, and this equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. In the future, we may experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of these types of equipment failures, which could cause us to lose or prevent us from taking advantage of various business opportunities or prevent us from responding to competitive pressures.The Company may be subject to risks relating to its information technology systems.The Company relies on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and manage and operate its business. A breach in security could expose the Company and its customers and suppliers to risks of misuse of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, production downtimes and operations disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect the Company's reputation, competitive position, business or results of operations. 9Table of ContentsThe global nature of our business exposes us to foreign currency fluctuations that may affect our asset values, results of operations and competitiveness. We are exposed to the risks of currency exchange rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our net sales, costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These risks include a reduction in our asset values, net sales, operating income and competitiveness. For those countries outside the United States where we have significant sales, devaluation in the local currency would reduce the value of our local inventory as presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, a stronger U.S. dollar would result in reduced revenue, operating profit and shareholders' equity due to the impact of foreign exchange translation on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may make our products more expensive for others to purchase or increase our operating costs, affecting our competitiveness and our profitability. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and volatile economic, political and market conditions in emerging market countries have in the past adversely affected our financial performance and may in the future adversely affect the value of our assets located outside the United States, our gross profit and our results of operations. Global political instability and other risks of international operations may adversely affect our operating costs, revenues and the price of our products. Our international operations expose us to risks not present in a purely domestic business, including primarily: •changes in tariff regulations, which may make our products more costly to export or import; •difficulties establishing and maintaining relationships with local original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and dealers; •import and export licensing requirements; •compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and environmental or other regulatory requirements, which could increase our operating and other expenses and limit our operations; •disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations; and •tax exposures related to cross-border intercompany transfer pricing and other tax risks unique to international operations. These and other risks may also increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products in the markets in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. The funded status of our defined benefit and other postretirement plans has caused and may in the future cause a significant reduction in our shareholders' equity. We recorded an increase in shareholders' equity related to pension and postretirement benefit liabilities in 2013 primarily due to an increase in discount rates, as well as higher than expected returns on pension and postretirement assets. However, we recorded a decrease in shareholders' equity related to pension and postretirement benefit liabilities in 2012, and in the future, we may be required to record charges related to pension and other postretirement liabilities as a result of asset returns, discount rate changes or other actuarial adjustments. These charges may be significant and would cause a reduction in our shareholders' equity. 10Table of ContentsThe funded status of our pension plans may require additional contributions, which may divert funds from other uses. The funded status of our pension plans may require us to make additional contributions to such plans. We made cash contributions of approximately $121 million, $326 million and $291 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, to our defined benefit pension plans and currently expect to make cash contributions of approximately $20 million in 2014 to such plans. However, we cannot predict whether changing economic conditions, the future performance of assets in the plans or other factors will lead us or require us to make contributions in excess of our current expectations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. Our defined benefit plans' assets and liabilities are substantial and expenses and contributions related to those plans are affected by factors outside our control, including the performance of plan assets, interest rates, actuarial data and experience, and changes in laws and regulations. Our defined benefit pension plans had assets with an estimated value of approximately $3.3 billion and liabilities with an estimated value of approximately $3.1 billion, both as of December 31, 2013. Our future expense and funding obligations for the defined benefit pension plans depend upon a number of factors, including the level of benefits provided for by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine the discount rate to calculate the amount of liabilities, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. In addition, if the various investments held by our pension trusts do not perform as expected or the liabilities increase as a result of discount rates and other actuarial changes, our pension expense and required contributions would increase and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business. Due to the value of our defined benefit plan assets and liabilities, even a minor decrease in interest rates, to the extent not offset by contributions or asset returns, could increase our obligations under such plans. We may be legally required to make contributions to the pension plans in the future in excess of our current expectations, and those contributions could be material. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations, reduce our revenues and materially affect our earnings. A work stoppage at one or more of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, if one or more of our customers were to experience a work stoppage, that customer would likely halt or limit purchases of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations that could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. We are subject to a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, U.S. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices. We are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. Compliance with the laws and regulations described above or with other applicable foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations currently in effect or that may be adopted in the future could materially adversely affect our competitive position, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 11Table of ContentsIf we are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business could be materially adversely affected. Our business substantially depends on the continued service of key members of our management. The loss of the services of a significant number of members of our management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, such as engineering, finance, marketing and senior management professionals. Competition for these employees is intense, and we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting new high quality employees, our business could be materially adversely affected. We may not realize the improved operating results that we anticipate from past and future acquisitions and we may experience difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. We seek to grow, in part, through strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, which are intended to complement or expand our businesses, and expect to continue to do so in the future. These acquisitions involve challenges and risks. In the event that we do not successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operating results depend in part on continued successful research, development and marketing of new and/or improved products and services, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully introduce new products and services. The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected, to varying degrees, by technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which could result in unpredictable product transitions or shortened life cycles. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production, or marketing of new products and services which may prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. The end result could be a negative impact on our operating results.12Table of ContentsRisks Relating to Our Proposed Spinoff of Our Steel BusinessThe proposed spinoff of our steel business is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management and may have an adverse effect on us even if not completed. On September 5, 2013, our board of directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of our steel business through a spinoff. The proposed spinoff is subject to various conditions and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. Completion of the spinoff will be contingent upon customary closing conditions, including, among other things, authorization and approval of our board of directors, receipt of governmental and regulatory approvals of the transactions contemplated by the spinoff, receipt of a legal opinion regarding the tax-free status of the spinoff, execution of intercompany agreements and the effectiveness of a registration statement on Form 10 with the SEC. For these and other reasons, the spinoff may not be completed as expected during 2014, if at all. Even if the spinoff is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we may be subject to certain risks and consequences, including, among others, the following:•execution of the proposed spinoff will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our businesses and the execution of other initiatives that may have been beneficial to us; •our employees may be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spinoff; •we will be required to pay certain costs and expenses relating to the spinoff, such as legal, accounting and other professional fees, whether or not it is completed; and•we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the spinoff. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the price of our common shares. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spinoff. Although we believe that separating our steel business from our bearings and power transmission business by means of the spinoff will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our shareholders, the spinoff may not provide such results on the scope or scale we anticipate, and we may not realize the assumed benefits of the spinoff. In addition, we will incur one-time costs in connection with the spinoff that may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize as a result of the spinoff. If we do not realize the assumed benefits of the spinoff or if our costs exceed our estimates, then we could suffer a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If the proposed spinoff of our steel business is completed, the trading price of our common shares will decline. We expect the trading price of our common shares immediately following the spinoff to be significantly lower than immediately prior to the spinoff because the trading price for our common shares will no longer reflect the value of our steel business. Following the spinoff, the value of your common shares in: (a) the Company and (b) the steel business may collectively trade at an aggregate price less than what the Company's common shares might trade at had the spinoff not occurred. The common shares of: (a) the Company and (b) the steel business that you may hold following the spinoff may collectively trade at a value less than the price at which the Company’s common shares might have traded at had the spinoff not occurred. These reasons include the future performance of either the Company or the steel business as separate, independent companies, and the future shareholder base and market for the Company’s common shares and the shares of the steel business and the prices at which these shares individually trade.13Table of ContentsThe spinoff could result in substantial tax liability.The spinoff is conditioned on our receipt of an opinion of Covington & Burling LLP, special tax counsel to us (or other nationally recognized tax counsel), in form and substance satisfactory to us, that the distribution of shares of our steel business in the spinoff will qualify as tax-free to the steel business, us and our shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) and related provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and that certain internal restructuring transactions in connection with the spinoff similarly will be tax-free to the steel business, us and other members of our consolidated tax reporting group. The opinion will rely on, among other things, various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us and the steel business which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion will not be binding on the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS), or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the qualification of the spinoff as a transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a) of the Code or that any such challenge would not prevail.If, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion of counsel, the spinoff were determined not to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, each U.S. holder of our common shares who receives shares of the steel business in connection with the spinoff would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of the steel business that are received. That distribution would be taxable to each such shareholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. For each such shareholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such shareholder’s tax basis in his or her common shares of the Company with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. We would be subject to tax as if we had sold common shares in a taxable sale for their fair market value and we would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such common shares over our tax basis in such common shares, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Certain members of our board of directors and management may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their ownership of shares of the steel business or their relationships with the steel business following the spinoff.Certain members of our board of directors and management are expected to own shares of the steel business and/or options to purchase shares of the steel business, which could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and the steel business. It is possible that some of our directors might also be directors of the steel business following the spinoff. This may create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the steel business then the decisions have for us.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.14Table of Contents