Item 1A: Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks that are highlighted below are not the only ones that we face. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. The bearing industry is highly competitive, and this competition results in significant pricing pressure for our products that could affect our revenues and profitability. The global bearing industry is highly competitive. We compete with domestic manufacturers and many foreign manufacturers of anti-friction bearings, including SKF Group, Schaeffler Group, NTN Corporation, JTEKT Corporation and NSK Ltd. The bearing industry is also capital intensive and profitability is dependent on factors such as labor compensation and productivity and inventory management, which are subject to risks that we may not be able to control. Due to the competitiveness within the bearing industry, we may not be able to increase prices for our products to cover increases in our costs and, in many cases, we may face pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, our customers may choose to purchase products from one of our competitors rather than pay the prices we seek for our products, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Competition and consolidation in the steel industry, together with potential global overcapacity, could result in significant pricing pressure for our products. Competition within the steel industry, both domestically and worldwide, is intense and is expected to remain so. Global production overcapacity has occurred in the past and may reoccur in the future, which would exert downward pressure on domestic steel prices and result in, at times, a dramatic narrowing, or with many companies the elimination, of gross margins. High levels of steel imports into the United States could exacerbate this pressure on domestic steel prices. In addition, many of our competitors are continuously exploring and implementing strategies, including acquisitions and the addition or repositioning of capacity, which focus on manufacturing higher margin products that compete more directly with our steel products. These factors could lead to significant downward pressure on prices for our steel products, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Continued weakness in either global economic conditions or in any of the industries in which our customers operate or sustained uncertainty in financial markets could adversely impact our revenues and profitability by reducing demand and margins. Our results of operations may be materially affected by the conditions in the global economy generally and in global capital markets. The current global economic downturn has caused extreme volatility in the capital markets and in the end markets in which our customers operate. Our revenues may be negatively affected by continued reduced customer demand, additional changes in the product mix and negative pricing pressure in the industries in which we operate. Margins in those industries are highly sensitive to demand cycles, and our customers in those industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. As a result, our revenues and earnings are impacted by overall levels of industrial production. Our results of operations may be materially affected by the conditions in the global financial markets. If an end user cannot obtain financing to purchase our products, either directly or indirectly contained in machinery or equipment, demand for our products will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. Certain automotive industry companies are experiencing significant financial downturns. While bankruptcies of certain automotive industry companies in 2009 did not result in any material losses to the Company, if any other customers become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover accounts receivable from that customer would be adversely affected and any payment we received during the preference period prior to a bankruptcy filing may be potentially recoverable by the bankruptcy estate. Furthermore, if certain of our customers liquidate in bankruptcy, we may incur impairment charges relating to obsolete inventory and machinery and equipment. In addition, financial instability of certain companies that participate in the automotive industry supply chain could disrupt production in the industry. A disruption of production in the automotive industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. 8 Table of Contents Risk Factors (continued) We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from, or successfully execute, Project O.N.E. In 2005, we began implementing Project O.N.E., a multi-year program designed to improve business processes and systems to deliver enhanced customer service and financial performance. From 2007 to 2009, we completed the installation of Project O.N.E. in most of our Bearing & Power Transmission operations located in the United States, Europe and India. If we are not successful in executing or operating under Project O.N.E., or if it fails to achieve the anticipated results, then our operations, margins, sales and reputation could be adversely affected. Any change in the operation of our raw material surcharge mechanisms, a raw material market index or the availability or cost of raw materials and energy resources could materially affect our revenues and earnings. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including scrap metal and alloys and natural gas to operate our business. Many of our customer contracts contain surcharge pricing provisions. The surcharges are tied to a widely-available market index for that specific raw material. Many of the widely-available raw material market indices have recently experienced wide fluctuations. Any change in a raw material market index could materially affect our revenues. Any change in the relationship between the market indices and our underlying costs could materially affect our earnings. Any change in our projected year-end input costs could materially affect our LIFO inventory valuation method and earnings. Moreover, future disruptions in the supply of our raw materials or energy resources could impair our ability to manufacture our products for our customers or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain these raw materials or energy resources from other sources, and could thereby affect our sales and profitability. Any increase in the prices for such raw materials or energy resources could materially affect our costs and therefore our earnings. Warranty, recall or product liability claims could materially adversely affect our earnings. In our business, we are exposed to warranty and product liability claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in the recall of a product. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The failure to achieve the anticipated results of our restructuring, rationalization and realignment initiatives could materially affect our earnings. In 2005, we refined our plans to rationalize our Canton bearing operations. During 2005, we announced plans for our Automotive Group (now part of our Mobile Industries segment) to restructure its business and improve performance. In response to reduced production demand from North American automotive manufacturers, in September 2006, we announced further planned reductions in our Mobile Industries workforce. In 2009, we announced plans to reduce operative and professional employment levels, overhead costs and discretionary expenditures. The initiatives relating to the Canton bearing operations, the Mobile Industries segment and the employment and cost reductions are each targeted to deliver annual pretax savings, assuming certain amounts of costs. The failure to achieve the anticipated results of any of these plans, including our targeted costs and annual savings, could materially adversely affect our earnings. In addition, increases in other costs and expenses may offset any cost savings from these efforts. 9 Table of Contents Risk Factors (continued) We may incur further impairment and restructuring charges that could materially affect our profitability. We have taken approximately $254 million in impairment and restructuring charges, during the last four years, for the Canton bearing operations, Mobile Industries segment, Bearings and Power Transmission Group and employment and other cost reduction initiatives. We expect to take additional charges in connection with the Canton bearing operations, the Mobile Industries segment, and the employment and cost reduction initiatives. Continued weakness in business or economic conditions, or changes in our business strategy, may result in additional restructuring programs and may require us to take additional charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Any reduction of CDSOA distributions in the future would reduce our earnings and cash flows. The CDSOA provides for distribution of monies collected by U.S. Customs from antidumping cases to qualifying domestic producers where the domestic producers have continued to invest in their technology, equipment and people. The Company reported CDSOA receipts, net of expenses, of $3.6 million, $10.2 million and $7.9 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In February 2006, U.S. legislation was enacted that would end CDSOA distributions for imports covered by antidumping duty orders entering the United States after September 30, 2007. Instead, any such antidumping duties collected would remain with the U.S. Treasury. This legislation is expected to reduce any distributions in years beyond 2010, with distributions eventually ceasing. In separate cases in July and September 2006, the CIT ruled that the procedure for determining recipients eligible to receive CDSOA distributions is unconstitutional. In February 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the decision of the CIT. The Company is unable to determine, at this time, what the ultimate outcome of litigation regarding CDSOA will be. There are a number of other factors that can affect whether the Company receives any CDSOA distributions and the amount of such distributions in any year. These factors include, among other things, potential additional changes in the law, other ongoing and potential additional legal challenges to the law, and the administrative operation of the law. It is possible that CIT rulings might prevent us from receiving any CDSOA distributions in 2010 and beyond. Any reduction of CDSOA distributions would reduce our earnings and cash flow. Environmental regulations impose substantial costs and limitations on our operations and environmental compliance may be more costly than we expect. We are subject to the risk of substantial environmental liability and limitations on our operations due to environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning issues such as air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste handling and disposal and the investigation and remediation of contamination. The risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to compliance with these laws and regulations are an inherent part of our business, and future conditions may develop, arise or be discovered that create substantial environmental compliance or remediation liabilities and costs. Compliance with environmental legislation and regulatory requirements may prove to be more limiting and costly than we anticipate. New laws and regulations, including those which may relate to emissions of greenhouse gases, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may also be subject from time to time to legal proceedings brought by private parties or governmental authorities with respect to environmental matters, including matters involving alleged property damage or personal injury. 10 Table of Contents Risk Factors (continued) Unexpected equipment failures or other disruptions of our operations may increase our costs and reduce our sales and earnings due to production curtailments or shutdowns. Interruptions in production capabilities, especially in our Steel Group, would inevitably increase our production costs and reduce sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers, and this equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. In the future, we may experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of these types of equipment failures. The global nature of our business exposes us to foreign currency fluctuations that may affect our asset values, results of operations and competitiveness. We are exposed to the risks of currency exchange rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our net sales, costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These risks include a reduction in our asset values, net sales, operating income and competitiveness. For those countries outside the United States where we have significant sales, devaluation in the local currency would reduce the value of our local inventory as presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, a stronger U.S. dollar would result in reduced revenue, operating profit and shareholders’ equity due to the impact of foreign exchange translation on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may make our products more expensive for others to purchase or increase our operating costs, affecting our competitiveness and our profitability. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and volatile economic, political and market conditions in emerging market countries have in the past adversely affected our financial performance and may in the future adversely affect the value of our assets located outside the United States, our gross profit and our results of operations. Global political instability and other risks of international operations may adversely affect our operating costs, revenues and the price of our products. Our international operations expose us to risks not present in a purely domestic business, including primarily: • changes in tariff regulations, which may make our products more costly to export or import; • difficulties establishing and maintaining relationships with local OEMs, distributors and dealers; • import and export licensing requirements; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and environmental or other regulatory requirements, which could increase our operating and other expenses and limit our operations; • difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations; and • tax exposures related to cross-border intercompany transfer pricing and other tax risks unique to international operations. These and other risks may also increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products in the markets in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. 11 Table of Contents Risk Factors (continued) Underfunding of our defined benefit and other postretirement plans has caused and may in the future cause a significant reduction in our shareholders’ equity. Due primarily to negative asset returns for our defined benefit pension plans in 2008 and a change in accounting standards in 2006, we were required to record total reductions, net of income taxes, against our shareholders’ equity of $398 million in 2008 and $276 million in 2006. In the future, we may be required to record additional charges related to pension and other postretirement liabilities as a result of asset returns, discount rate changes or other actuarial adjustments, and these charges may be significant. The underfunded status of our pension plans may require large contributions which may divert funds from other uses. The underfunded status of our pension plans may require us to make large contributions to such plans. We made cash contributions of approximately $63 million, $22 million and $102 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, to our defined benefit pension plans and currently expect to make cash contributions of approximately $135 million in 2010 to such plans. However, we cannot predict whether changing economic conditions, the future performance of assets in the plans or other factors will lead us or require us to make contributions in excess of our current expectations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. Our defined benefit plans’ assets and liabilities are substantial and expenses and contributions related to those plans are affected by factors outside our control, including the performance of plan assets, interest rates, actuarial data and experience, and changes in laws and regulations. Our defined benefit plans had assets with an estimated value of approximately $2.1 billion and liabilities with an estimated value of approximately $2.8 billion, both as of December 31, 2009. Our future expense and funding obligations for the defined benefit pension plans depend upon a number of factors, including the level of benefits provided for by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine the discount rate to calculate the amount of liabilities, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. In addition, if the various investments held by our pension trusts do not perform as expected or the liabilities increase as a result of discount rate and other actuarial changes, our pension expense and required contributions would increase and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business. Due to the value of our defined benefit plan assets and liabilities, even a minor decrease in interest rates, to the extent not offset by contributions or asset returns, could increase our obligations under such plans. We may be legally required to make contributions to the pension plans in the future in excess of our current expectations, and those contributions could be material. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations, reduce our revenues and materially affect our earnings. A work stoppage at one or more of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, if one or more of our customers were to experience a work stoppage, that customer would likely halt or limit purchases of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Risk Factors (continued) We may not be able to maintain compliance with the covenants contained in our debt agreement. We reported a net loss for the full year of 2009. The U.S. and global industrial manufacturing downturn deepened during 2009 and contributed to a decrease in our sales and profitability. We cannot foresee whether our operations will generate sufficient revenue for us to attain profitability in the future, and we may not be able to reduce fixed costs sufficiently to improve our operating ratios. In addition, our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated July 10, 2009 (Senior Credit Facility) contains financial covenants that require us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. In particular, our new Senior Credit Facility contains requirements relating to a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated net worth. These covenants could, among other things, limit our ability to borrow against the new Senior Credit Facility or other facilities. Further, our ability to meet the financial covenants or requirements in our new Senior Credit Facility may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to satisfy such covenants and requirements. A breach of these covenants or our inability to comply with the financial ratios, tests or other restrictions could result in an event of default under our new Senior Credit Facility, which in turn could result in an event of default under the terms of our other indebtedness. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our new Senior Credit Facility, after the expiration of any grace periods, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our new Senior Credit Facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this happens, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the payments due under that facility or our other indebtedness. In addition, if we are unable to service our indebtedness or fund our operating costs, we will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include: • further reducing or delaying capital expenditures; • seeking additional debt financing or equity capital, possibly at a higher cost to us or have other terms that are less attractive to us than would otherwise be the case; • selling assets; • restructuring or refinancing debt, which may increase further our financing costs; or • curtailing or eliminating certain activities. Moreover, we may not be able to implement any of these strategies on satisfactory terms, if at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 