Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Item 2. PROPERTIES Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Item 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Item 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERANCE Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES SIGNATURES "SAFE HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Statements contained in this Report, which are not historical facts or information, are "forward-looking statements." Words such as "believe," "expect," "intend," "will," "should," and other expressions that indicate future events and trends identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause the outcome to be materially different than stated. Such risks and uncertainties include both general economic risks and uncertainties and matters, which relate directly to the Company's operations and properties and are discussed in Items 1, 3 and 7 below. The Company cautions that any forward-looking statement reflects only the belief of the Company or its management at the time the statement was made. Although the Company believes such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, such assumptions may ultimately prove to be inaccurate or incomplete. The Company undertakes no oblig ation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement was made. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION Todd Shipyards Corporation ("we", "us", or "our") was organized in 1916 and has operated a shipyard in Seattle, Washington (the "Shipyard") since incorporation. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware and operate the Shipyard through a wholly owned subsidiary, Todd Pacific Shipyards Corporation ("Todd Pacific"). Todd Pacific has historically been engaged in the repair/overhaul, conversion and construction of commercial and military ships. We consider ourselves to operate under one segment. Today, we are the largest private (or non-Governmental) shipyard in the Pacific Northwest. A substantial amount of our business is repair and maintenance work on commercial and federal government vessels engaged in various maritime activities in the Pacific Northwest. We also provide new construction and industrial fabrication services for a wide variety of customers. Our customers include the US Navy ("Navy"), the US Coast Guard ("Coast Guard"), Military Sealift Command ("MSC"), National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration ("NOAA"), the Washington State Ferry system ("WSF"), the Alaska Marine Highway System ("AMHS"), fishing fleets, cargo shippers, tug and barge operators and cruise lines. OPERATIONS SHIP REPAIR Currently our primary operation is ship repair. The nature of this work ranges from relatively minor repairs to major overhauls and often involves the dry-docking of the vessel under repair. The cycle time for these projects span from shorter (one week or less) to longer (more than six months) periods of time, depending on the work performed. Commercial repair and overhaul contracts are obtained by competitive bidding, awarded by negotiation or assigned by customers who have a preference for a specific shipyard. On jobs that are advertised for competitive bids, owners usually furnish specifications and plans that become the basis for an agreed upon contract. Commercial repair and overhaul jobs are usually contracted on a fixed-price or time and material basis. Examples of customers in the commercial ship repair category include fishing fleets, cargo shippers, tug and barge operators and cruise lines. The majority of our ship repair and overhaul work for the US Government ("Government") is awarded on an option basis under one of our cost-type contracts with the Navy and the Coast Guard. These contracts provide for reimbursement of costs, to the extent allocable and allowable under applicable Government regulations, and payment of an incentive or award fee based on our performance with respect to certain pre-established criteria. We also perform repair and overhaul work for the Navy, the Coast Guard and other Government entities on a fixed price basis through a formal bidding process. Our commercial and Government ship repair and overhaul contracts contain customer payment terms that are determined by mutual agreement. Typically, we are reimbursed periodically through progress payments based on the achievement of certain agreed to milestones. In some cases, the customer retains an agreed portion of the contract price during the warranty period. Some vessel owners contracting for repair, maintenance, or conversion work also require some form and amount of performance and payment bonding, particularly state agencies. Because of these requirements, we are bonded for certain projects in the cumulative amount of $43.8 million at March 30, 2008. CONSTRUCTION Although our major focus is on ship repair, overhaul and conversion, we selectively undertake new construction projects when we deem the risks are manageable and the opportunities are commensurate with the risks undertaken. As an example, we recently completed construction of an excavator barge to be ultimately owned by the Army Corp of Engineers and to be utilized in the construction of a dam on the Ohio River. In July 2007 we, as prime contractor, commenced negotiations with the Washington State Department of Transportation, Ferry Division ("WSF") for the terms and conditions of a contract to build up to four 144 auto ferries. We concluded those negotiations and executed the prime contract with WSF in December 2007. The contract is issued in two parts. Part A provides for the design of the ferries and Part B will dictate the terms of the actual construction of the ferries. Part A of the contract was awarded for $2.3 million that will be shared between us, our primary subcontractor, and Guido Perla & Associates of Seattle, Washington, who will provide ferry design services. We reached agreement on the terms and conditions of a subcontract with Martinac Shipbuilding of Tacoma, Washington in December 2007 to be a subcontractor to us. Once the design and cost estimate are complete, we will negotiate a price and delivery schedule for Part B of the contract, covering the construction of the ferries, with WSF. The current timetable discussed between us and WSF would project contract execution of Part B during the winter of 2008-09. There are no assurances that we will reach agreement with WSF on a price for construction of the ferries or that the necessary funding will be available from the State of Washington to build any or all of the ferries. Nichols Brothers Boat Builders ("NBBI") was a potential supplier for the WSF 144 car contract. We were notified on November 2, 2007 that due to financial difficulties, NBBI was ceasing operations and laying off their workforce. NBBBI filed a bankruptcy petition pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in Seattle later in November 2007. In an auction held in January 2008 the assets of NBBBI were sold. The sale of the assets of NBBBI will require us either to find an alternate supplier or to perform that portion of the work ourselves. We have not had any formal discussions with the purchaser of the NBBBI assets regarding the 144 auto ferry new construction program. In November 2007, the Secretary of the Washington State Department of Transportation ("Secretary") announced the retirement of the four Steel Electric class ferries that provided the only auto ferry service between Port Townsend and Keystone Harbor. The Secretary cited safety concerns as the deciding factor to retire the boats. In a press conference held at our Seattle facility after the signing of the contract between Todd Pacific and WSF for the 144 auto ferries (discussed above), the Governor announced that she intended to seek the legislation necessary to construct up to three replacement ferries to be used between Port Townsend and Keystone Harbor. She further announced her intent to have the boats built in Washington State. Enabling legislation was passed by the Legislature and was signed into law by the Governor on February 14, 2008. We answered the request for proposal ("RFP") from WSF and were the sole bidder on the project. WSF determined that our bid was higher than their engineer's estimate and ultimately cancelled the RFP announcing that the construction of two other larger ferries would be advertised for bid to Washington State shipyards in July 2008. There can be no assurance that WSF will build these two ferries nor is there any assurance that we will be a successful participant in this future RFP. COMPETITION DOMESTIC Competition in the domestic ship repair and overhaul industry is intense. The reduced size of the Government's active duty fleet has resulted in a significant decline in the total amount of Government business available to private sector shipyards, creating excess shipyard capacity and acute price competition. We compete for commercial and Government work with a number of other shipyards, some of which have more advantageous cost structures. Our competitors for repair, maintenance and overhaul work include non-union shipyards and shipyards with excess capacity. Our competitors for new construction work, in addition to West Coast competitors, include Gulf Coast and East Coast shipyards with lower wage structures, substantial financial resources or significant investments in productivity enhancing facilities. Competition for domestic construction and repair opportunities will continue to be intense as some of our larger competitors have more modern facilities, lower labor cost struc tures, or access to greater financial resources. FOREIGN Opportunities for us to serve non-United States ship owners or operators are limited because shipyards in foreign countries are often subsidized by their governments and in some cases enjoy significantly lower labor costs. Subsidies can allow foreign shipyards to enter into production contracts at prices below their actual production costs. COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES We intend to continue capitalizing on the advantages of our geographic location, the skills of our experienced workforce and improved lean production efficiencies developed over the past several years as we compete for repair, maintenance and overhaul opportunities. CUSTOMERS In 2008, we serviced approximately 85 customers, both as the prime contractor and as a subcontractor to the prime contractor, compared with 84 in 2007. Our two largest customers are the US Navy and the US Coast Guard. Our business with the Navy and the Coast Guard is typically done through long-term cost-type and fixed-priced contracts. A loss of either one of these significant customers could have an adverse effect upon our business. DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUES The approximate distribution of our shipyard revenues for each of the last three fiscal years is summarized as follows: US Government revenue consists of revenue on only US Government jobs for which we were the prime contractor and excludes revenue where we were the subcontractor. Revenues earned as a subcontractor are included in non-US Government revenues. The percentage of our revenues derived from Government sources decreased in fiscal year 2008 from fiscal year 2007. Work volumes and revenue are closely tied to the timing of availabilities for certain Navy and Coast Guard vessels covered by our long-term Government contracts. The year on year decrease in revenue from Government sources was primarily driven by reduced work demand by Government customers for the vessel availabilities coinciding with the our fiscal year 2008. Revenue continues to be strongly influenced by the amount and timing of repair, maintenance and overhaul work awarded under the remaining Navy cost-type contracts (see Item 7., Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - "Significant R evenue Contracts"). BACKLOG At March 30, 2008, our backlog consisted of approximately $12 million of ship repair, maintenance, and conversion work. This compares with backlogs of approximately $36 million and $72 million at April 1, 2007 and April 2, 2006, respectively. Our backlog is primarily attributable to firm fixed price repair, and maintenance and conversion work scheduled for completion during fiscal year 2009. The decrease in backlog is due primarily to the timing of U.S Government jobs. AVAILABILITY OF MATERIALS The principal materials we use in our Shipyard are steel and aluminum plates and shapes, pipe and fittings, paint and electrical cable and associated fittings. Management believes that each of these items can presently be obtained in the domestic market from a number of different suppliers. In addition, we maintain a small on-site inventory of various materials that are available for emergency ship repairs. EMPLOYEES The number of persons we employ varies considerably and depends primarily on the level of shipyard activity. Employment averaged approximately 800 during fiscal year 2008 and totaled approximately 400 employees on March 30, 2008. During fiscal year 2008, an average of approximately 600 of our shipyard employees were covered by a union contract that became effective on August 1, 2005. At March 30, 2008, approximately 300 employees were covered under this contract. In November 2005, Todd Pacific Shipyards reached an agreement for a new collective bargaining agreement with the Puget Sound Metal Trades Council (the bargaining umbrella for all unions at Todd Pacific Shipyards) which was subsequently ratified by the rank and file members. The three-year agreement, which was retroactive to August 1, 2005, will expire on July 31, 2008. The agreement provides for increases in the wages and fringe benefits at a rate of approximately 4.3% per year. We consider our relations with the various unions to be stable. ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF EVERETT SHIPYARD, INC. On March 31, 2008, our subsidiary Everett Ship Repair & Drydock, Inc. ("Everett") acquired the assets of Everett Shipyard, Inc. ("ESY"). ESY performed ship repair work for a range of government and commercial customers, including the United States Navy and Washington State Ferries, at two locations in Everett, Washington. Everett will continue ESY's shipyard operations. Everett named Kevin Quigley as its President and he will be responsible for the operation of the shipyard. Mr. Quigley had served as President of ESY for the past seven years. The assets acquired by Everett include ESY's interest in a 1,000 ton dry dock which was recently added to ESY's operations, allowing Everett to compete in a broader market of marine repair and overhaul opportunities. ESY and our Seattle shipyard do not generally compete for the same contracts. Everett has assumed the collective bargaining agreements with the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Local 104 and the United Brotherhood of Carpenters, Local 1184. The new yard intends to employ the workforce previously employed by ESY. REGULATORY MATTERS ENVIRONMENTAL AND BODILY INJUSTY MATTERS We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. Fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with these laws. We have an accrued liability of $11.4 million as of March 30, 2008 for environmental and bodily injury matters. As assessments of environmental matters and remediation activities progress, we review these liabilities periodically and adjust them to reflect additional technical, engineering and legal information that becomes available. Our estimate of environmental liabilities is affected by several uncertainties such as, but not limited to, the method and extent of remediation of contaminated sites, the percentage of material attributable to us at the sites relative to that attributable to other parties, and the financial capabilities of the other Potentially Responsible Parties ("PRP") at most sites. Our estimate of bodily injury liabilities is also affected as additional information becomes known regarding alleged damages from past exposure to asbestos at our facilities. We are covered under various insurance policies for some, but not all, potential environmental and bodily injury l iabilities. As of March 30, 2008, we recorded an insurance receivable of $9.1 million, which mitigates a major portion of the accrued environmental and bodily injury liabilities. For further information regarding our environmental and bodily injury matters see Item 3. Legal Proceedings, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SAFETY MATTERS We are also subject to the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA") and similar state statutes. We have an extensive health and safety program and employ a staff of safety/fire inspectors whose primary functions are to monitor in-process work to assure safety protocols are being followed. Secondarily, our safety/fire inspectors staff develop Company policies that meet or exceed the safety standards set by OSHA, train production supervisors to our policies and make periodic inspections of safety procedures to insure compliance with our policies on safety and industrial hygiene. All production employees are required to attend regularly scheduled safety training meetings. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or otherwise adversely affect our business. Economic downturns and reductions in Government funding could have a negative impact on our business. Significant portions of our revenues are derived from contracts that are funded by the Government. Our ability to obtain future Government work at reasonable margins is highly dependent on the amount of work that is available to bid, which is largely a function of the level of Government funding available. The availability of Government funding also affects the long-term contracts we currently have as the contacts are based on options that the Government could choose not to exercise if funding is cut-back or not available at all. The availability of funding could also affect whether or not those long term Government contracts are renewed. We also perform commercial work for customers in the private sector. The availability of this private sector work can be significantly adversely affected by general economic downturns and by fluctuations in specific customers' economic circumstan ces. Our cost-type Government contracts provide the Government with the option to have us perform repair, maintenance and overhaul activities on certain Government ships, and in some cases at certain Government facilities. While work on these ships is typically done at reasonably predictable intervals, those intervals can be substantially altered as a result of changing military priorities and other unexpected deployments. Furthermore, a decision by the Government to redeploy these ships to another permanent geographic location could have a negative impact on our business depending on that location. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to win renewal of any of cost-type Government contracts. Even in the absence of geographic reassignment or other necessity, the Government remains free to elect to have work done by other parties that is contemplated to be done under their contracts with us. Our fixed-price contracts subject us to the risk of increased project cost. The profitability of fixed-price contracts can be adversely affected by a number of factors that can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of the original bid. Even in situations in which some of such increased costs arise as a result of customer initiated or approved change orders, there may be a delay or dispute as to the amount of increased revenue due to us. Our accounting for revenues and costs involves significant estimates. As further described in "Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments" under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation (Item 7.), accounting for contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and the results of operations. On a regular basis, we monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, costs incurred and a llocated to contracts with the US Government are routinely audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"). The government has the ability to recover or disallow any costs which are improperly charged against or allocated to the contracts. Our future profitability depends largely on the ability of the Shipyard to maintain an adequate volume of ship repair, overhaul and conversion business to augment our longer-term contracts. The variables affecting our business volume include public support provided to competing Northwest shipyards, excess west coast and industry-wide shipyard capacity, domestic and foreign competition, governmental legislation and regulatory issues, activity levels of the Navy and other customers, competitors' pricing behavior, and our labor efficiencies, work practices and estimating abilities. Other factors that can contribute to future profitability include the amounts of annual expenditures needed to ensure continuing serviceability of our owned and leased machinery and equipment. Our long term success in managing a profitable operation at our newly acquired shipyard in Everett, Washington will depend on the availability of a sufficient volume of profitable work including pier side Washington State Ferry repairs and continued work on small barges for the United States Navy both pier side and in drydock. Weather conditions can significantly impact our quarterly revenues and profitability. Our ability to perform work can be significantly impacted by weather conditions such as precipitation and temperature, particularly in the third and fourth quarters of the year. Additionally, delays and other weather impacts may increase a project's cost and decrease profitability. Our long term success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. An important factor in our ability to profitably execute our work is also our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified people is dependent on the personnel resources available in our geographic area and general economic conditions, as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and desirable work environment. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. As more fully described under "Competition" above, we have multiple competitors in all of the areas in which we work. During economic down cycles or times of lower Government funding for projects, competition for the fewer available projects intensifies and this increased competition may result in a decrease in our ability to be competitive at acceptable margins. As more fully described under "Regulatory Matters" above, we are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment and workplace safety, the noncompliance with which can result in substantial penalties as well as civil and criminal liability. While compliance with these laws and regulations has not materially adversely affected operations in the past, there can be no assurance that these requirements will not change and that compliance will not adversely affect operations in the future. As more fully described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, we have been named as a defendant in civil actions by parties alleging damages from past exposure to toxic substances, generally asbestos, at our Seattle shipyard and at closed former facilities. We are currently defending approximately 503 such claims, 15 of which are considered significant. We have insurance agreements in place to cover these potential liabilities but a portion of that coverage, based on historical data, is expected to be exhausted in approximately three years. The continued defense and settlement of these claims, after exhaustion of one of the insuring agreements, could have a significant impact on our profitability. Strikes or work stoppages could have a negative impact on operations and results. We are party to a collective bargaining agreement covering a substantial portion of our craft workforce. That agreement expires on July 31, 2008. Although our results and operations have not been significantly impacted by strikes or work stoppages in the recent past, such labor actions could have a significant impact on operations and results if they were to occur in the future. We use certain commodity products that are subject to significant price fluctuations. Petroleum-based products are used to fuel and lubricate our equipment. Steel and other commodities are used in projects and they can be subject to significant price fluctuations. We have not been significantly adversely affected by commodity price fluctuations in the past; however, there is no guarantee that it will not be in the future. Failure of our subcontractors to perform as anticipated could have a negative impact on our results. We subcontract portions of many of our contracts to specialty subcontractors but we remain ultimately responsible for the successful completion of their work. Although we attempt to obtain bonding or other forms of guarantees, we are not always successful in obtaining bonds or guarantees from certain subcontractors. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will not incur a material loss due to subcontractor performance issues. As more fully described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, we have various insurance policies and agreements that provide coverage of the costs to remediate environmental sites and for the defense and settlement of bodily injury cases. These policies are primarily with two insurance companies. Management believes based on the current credit ratings of both of these companies and other insurance coverage that we maintain, our insurance coverage will be adequate to meet the obligations reflected. However, if this assumption is incorrect and either or both of these companies are unable to meet their future financial commitments and our secondary coverage is inadequate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may impact us unfavorably. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For these reasons, we caution the reader not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 