ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or otherwise adversely affect our business. Economic downturns and reductions in Government funding could have a negative impact on our business. Significant portions of our revenues are derived from contracts that are funded by the Government. Our ability to obtain future Government work at reasonable margins is highly dependent on the amount of work that is available to bid, which is largely a function of the level of Government funding available. The availability of Government funding also affects the long-term contracts we currently have as the contacts are based on options that the Government could choose not to exercise if funding is cut-back or not available at all. The availability of funding could also affect whether or not those long term Government contracts are renewed. We also perform commercial work for customers in the private sector. The availability of this private sector work can be significantly adversely affected by general economic downturns and by fluctuations in specific customers' economic circumstan ces. Our cost-type Government contracts provide the Government with the option to have us perform repair, maintenance and overhaul activities on certain Government ships, and in some cases at certain Government facilities. While work on these ships is typically done at reasonably predictable intervals, those intervals can be substantially altered as a result of changing military priorities and other unexpected deployments. Furthermore, a decision by the Government to redeploy these ships to another permanent geographic location could have a negative impact on our business depending on that location. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to win renewal of any of cost-type Government contracts. Even in the absence of geographic reassignment or other necessity, the Government remains free to elect to have work done by other parties that is contemplated to be done under their contracts with us. Our fixed-price contracts subject us to the risk of increased project cost. The profitability of fixed-price contracts can be adversely affected by a number of factors that can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of the original bid. Even in situations in which some of such increased costs arise as a result of customer initiated or approved change orders, there may be a delay or dispute as to the amount of increased revenue due to us. Our accounting for revenues and costs involves significant estimates. As further described in "Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments" under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation (Item 7.), accounting for contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and the results of operations. On a regular basis, we monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, costs incurred and a llocated to contracts with the Government are routinely audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"). The Government has the ability to recover or disallow any costs which are improperly charged against or allocated to the contracts. Our future profitability depends largely on the ability of the Shipyards to maintain an adequate volume of ship repair, overhaul and conversion business to augment our longer-term contracts. The variables affecting our business volume include public support provided to competing Northwest shipyards, excess west coast and industry-wide shipyard capacity, domestic and foreign competition, governmental legislation and regulatory issues, activity levels of the Navy and other customers, competitors' pricing behavior, and our labor efficiencies, work practices and estimating abilities. Other factors that can contribute to future profitability include the amounts of annual expenditures needed to ensure continuing serviceability of our owned and leased machinery and equipment. Our long-term success in managing a profitable operation at our newly acquired shipyard in Everett, Washington will depend on the availability of a sufficient volume of profitable work including pier-side WSF repairs and continued work on small water craft for a variety of customers, both pier-side and in drydock. As more fully described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, we have been named as a defendant in civil actions by parties alleging damages from past exposure to toxic substances, generally asbestos, at our Seattle shipyard and at closed former facilities. We are currently defending approximately 535 such claims, 12 of which are considered significant. We have insurance agreements in place to cover these potential liabilities but a portion of that coverage, based on historical data, is expected to be exhausted in approximately two years. The continued defense and settlement of these claims, after exhaustion of one of the insuring agreements, could have a significant impact on our profitability. We have various insurance policies and agreements that provide coverage of the costs to remediate environmental sites and for the defense and settlement of bodily injury cases. These policies and agreements are primarily with two insurance companies. Based upon the current credit ratings of both of these companies, we anticipate that both insurers will be able to perform under their respective policy or agreement. However, if this assumption is incorrect and either or both of these companies are unable to meet their future financial commitments, and our secondary coverage is inadequate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We use certain commodity products that are subject to significant price fluctuations. Petroleum-based products are used to fuel and lubricate our equipment. Steel and other commodities are used in projects and they can be subject to significant price fluctuations. We have not been significantly adversely affected by commodity price fluctuations in the past; however, there is no guarantee that we will not be in the future. The trading volume in our common stock does not provide significant liquidity which can result in substantial price moves either on the buy side or the sell side in the event there is a change in demand. As reported in a Form 8-K dated June 8, 2009, subsequent to the end of fiscal year 2009 the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") notified us that the exchange had received approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission for a pilot program, effective immediately, that would lower the criteria in the NYSE's continued listing standards to $50 million of market capitalization or shareholder's equity from the previous criteria of $75 million. As a result of the aforementioned pilot program the NYSE has deemed Todd to be in compliance with the NYSE continued listing requirements. The NYSE informed Todd that the pilot program would be effective through October 31, 2009, with a subsequent rule filing anticipated prior to that date to make this a permanent continued listing standard chan ge. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may impact us unfavorably. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For these reasons, we caution the reader not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 