Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are various risks and uncertainties that could cause its actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report or otherwise adversely affect its business. Economic downturns and reductions in Government funding could have a negative impact on the Company's business. Significant portions of its revenues are derived from contracts that are funded by the Government. The Company's ability to obtain future Government work at reasonable margins is highly dependent on the amount of work that is available to bid, which is largely a function of the level of Government funding available. The availability of Government funding also affects the long-term contracts we currently have as the contacts are based on options that the Government could choose not to exercise if funding is cut-back or not available at all. The availability of funding could also affect whether or not those long term Government contracts are renewed. The Company also performs commercial work for customers in the private sector. The availability of this private sector work can be significantly adversely affected by general economic downturns and by fluctuations in specific customers' economic circumstances. The Company's cost-type Government contracts provide the Government with the option to have Todd perform repair, maintenance and overhaul activities on certain Government ships, and in some cases at certain Government facilities. While work on these ships is typically done at reasonably predictable intervals, those intervals can be substantially altered as a result of changing military priorities and other unexpected deployments. Furthermore, a decision by the Government to redeploy these ships to another permanent geographic location could have a negative impact on the Company's business depending on that location. As well, the Government could elect to have work done by other parties that is contemplated to be done under its contracts with Todd. The Company's fixed-price contracts subject it to the risk of increased project cost. The profitability of its fixed-price contracts can be adversely affected by a number of factors that can cause its actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of the original bid. Accounting for the Company's revenues and costs involves significant estimates. As further described in "Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments" under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation (Item 7.), accounting for contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although the Company believes it has sufficient experience and processes to enable it to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and the results of operations. The Company's future profitability depends largely on the ability of the Shipyard to maintain an adequate volume of ship repair, overhaul and conversion business to augment its longer-term contracts. The variables affecting the Company's business volume include public support provided to competing Northwest shipyards, excess west coast and industry-wide shipyard capacity, domestic and foreign competition, governmental legislation and regulatory issues, activity levels of the Navy and other customers, competitors' pricing behavior, and Company labor efficiencies, work practices and estimating abilities. Other factors that can contribute to future profitability include the amounts of annual expenditures needed to ensure continuing serviceability of the Company's owned and leased machinery and equipment. The Company continues to respond aggressively to the increasingly competitive shipbuilding and repair industry. In addition to management's focus on the profitability of existing Shipyard operations through reduced operating costs, improved production efficiencies, increased customer service and the pursuit of new business volume, management continues to evaluate options for deployment of assets with a view to improving the Company's return on investment. Weather conditions can significantly impact the Company's quarterly revenues and profitability. The Company's ability to perform work can be significantly impacted by weather conditions such as precipitation and temperature, particularly in the third and fourth quarters of the year. Additionally, delays and other weather impacts may increase a project's cost and decrease profitability. The Company's long term success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. An important factor in our ability to profitably execute our work is also our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified people is dependent on the personnel resources available in our geographic area and general economic conditions, as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and work environment. The Company operates in a highly competitive marketplace. As more fully described under "Competition" above, we have multiple competitors in all of the areas in which we work. During economic down cycles or times of lower Government funding for projects, competition for the fewer available projects intensifies and this increased competition may result in a decrease in the Company's ability to be competitive at acceptable margins. As more fully described under "Regulatory Matters" above, the Company is subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment and workplace safety, the noncompliance with which can result in substantial penalties as well as civil and criminal liability. While compliance with these laws and regulations has not materially adversely affected operations in the past, there can be no assurance that these requirements will not change and that compliance will not adversely affect operations in the future. As more fully described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, the Company has been named as a defendant in civil actions by parties alleging damages from past exposure to toxic substances, generally asbestos, at its Seattle shipyard and at closed former Company facilities. The Company is currently defending approximately 575 such claims, 25 of which are considered significant. The Company has insurance agreements in place to cover these potential liabilities but a portion of that coverage, based on historical data, is expected to be exhausted in approximately three years. The continued defense and settlement of these claims, after exhaustion of one of the insuring agreements, could have a significant impact on the Company's profitability. Strikes or work stoppages could have a negative impact on operations and results. The Company is party to a collective bargaining agreement covering a substantial portion of its craft workforce. Although the Company's results and operations have not been significantly impacted by strikes or work stoppages in the recent past, such labor actions could have a significant impact on operations and results if they were to occur in the future. The Company uses certain commodity products that are subject to significant price fluctuations. Petroleum-based products are used to fuel and lubricate the Company's equipment. Steel and other commodities are used in Company projects and they can be subject to significant price fluctuations. The Company has not been significantly adversely affected by commodity price fluctuations in the past; however, there is no guarantee that it will not be in the future. Failure of its subcontractors to perform as anticipated could have a negative impact on the Company's results. The Company subcontracts portions of many of its contracts to specialty subcontractors but it remains ultimately responsible for the successful completion of their work. Although the Company attempts to obtain bonding or other forms of guarantees, it is not always successful in obtaining bonds or guarantees from certain subcontractors. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that the Company will not incur a material loss due to subcontractor performance issues. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting its business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the Company. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For these reasons, the reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 