Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Item 2. PROPERTIES Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Item 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Item 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERANCE Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES SIGNATURES "SAFE HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Statements contained in this Report, which are not historical facts or information, are "forward-looking statements." Words such as "believe," "expect," "intend," "will," "should," and other expressions that indicate future events and trends identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause the outcome to be materially different than stated. Such risks and uncertainties include both general economic risks and uncertainties and matters, which relate directly to the Company's operations and properties and are discussed in Items 1, 3 and 7 below. The Company cautions that any forward-looking statement reflects only the belief of the Company or its management at the time the statement was made. Although the Company believes such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, such assumptions may ultimately prove to be inaccurate or incomplete. The Company undertakes no oblig ation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement was made. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION Todd Shipyards Corporation ("we", "us", or "our") was organized in 1916 and has operated a shipyard in Seattle, Washington (the "Shipyard") since incorporation. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware and operate shipyards through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Todd Pacific Shipyards Corporation ("Todd Pacific") and Everett Shipyard, Inc. ("ESI"). Todd Pacific has historically been engaged in the repair/overhaul, conversion and construction of commercial and military ships. On March 31, 2008, our subsidiary Everett Ship Repair and Drydock, Inc. ("Everett") acquired the assets of ESI and subsequently changed its name to ESI. ESI is engaged in repair, overhaul, and conversion work of commercial and government owned vessels. We consider ourselves to operate under one segment. Today, we are the largest private (or non-Governmental) shipyard operator in the Pacific Northwest. A substantial amount of our business is repair and maintenance work on commercial and federal government vessels engaged in various maritime activities in the Pacific Northwest. We also provide new construction and industrial fabrication services for a wide variety of customers. Our customers include the US Navy ("Navy"), the US Coast Guard ("Coast Guard"), Military Sealift Command, National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration ("NOAA"), Washington State Ferries ("WSF"), the Alaska Marine Highway System, fishing fleets, cargo shippers, tug and barge operators and cruise lines. OPERATIONS SHIP REPAIR Currently, our primary operation is ship repair. The nature of this work ranges from relatively minor repairs to major overhauls and often involves the dry-docking of the vessel under repair. The cycle time for these projects spans from brief periods of one week or less to longer durations of six months or more, depending on the work performed. Commercial repair and overhaul contracts are generally obtained by competitive bidding or awarded by negotiation. On jobs advertised for competitive bids, owners usually furnish specifications and plans that become the basis for an agreed upon contract. We usually contract commercial repair and overhaul jobs on a fixed-price or time and material basis. Examples of customers in the commercial ship repair category include fishing vessels, cargo shippers, tug and barge operators and cruise lines. We are awarded the majority of our ship repair and overhaul work for the US Government ("Government") on an option basis under one of our cost-type contracts with the Navy and the Coast Guard. These contracts provide for reimbursement of costs, to the extent allocable and allowable under applicable Government regulations, and payment of an incentive or award fee based on our performance with respect to certain pre-established criteria. We also perform repair and overhaul work for the Navy, the Coast Guard and other Government entities on a fixed-price basis through a formal bidding process. All of our ship repair and overhaul contracts contain customer payment terms that are determined by mutual agreement. Typically, we are reimbursed periodically through progress payments based on the achievement of certain agreed upon milestones. In some cases, the customer retains an agreed portion of the contract price during the warranty period. Some vessel owners contracting for repair, maintenance, or conversion work also require some form and amount of performance and payment bonding, particularly state agencies. Because of these requirements, we are bonded for certain projects in the cumulative amount of $34.8 million at March 28, 2010. CONSTRUCTION Although our major focus is on ship repair, overhaul and conversion, we selectively undertake new construction projects when we deem the risks are manageable and the opportunities are commensurate with the risks undertaken. For example, on December 1, 2008 WSF awarded us a $65.5 million firm fixed-price contract for the construction of one 64-Auto Ferry. Construction commenced in fiscal year 2009 and the ferry, currently under construction, is scheduled to be delivered during fiscal year 2011. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Everett, is a subcontractor on the project. On October 13, 2009, WSF awarded us a $114.1 million contract for the construction of two additional 64-Auto Ferries. As part of this award, WSF has an option for the construction of a third additional vessel for $50.8 million, which they must exercise no later than May 31, 2011. The contract commenced upon receiving the Notice to Proceed from WSF on November 9, 2009. The contract contemplates delivery of the second vessel in the class 18 months after Notice to Proceed, and delivery of the third vessel nine months after the delivery date of the second. In July 2007, we, as prime contractor, commenced negotiations with WSF for the terms and conditions of a contract to build up to four 144-Auto Ferries. We concluded those negotiations and executed the prime contract with WSF in December 2007. WSF issued the contract in two parts: Part A provides for the design of the ferries and Part B will dictate the terms of the actual construction of the ferries. Part A of the contract, which was awarded for $2.4 million, is performed by us and our primary subcontractor, Guido Perla & Associates of Seattle, Washington ("GPA"), who will provide ferry design services. We reached agreement on the terms and conditions of a subcontract with Martinac Shipbuilding of Tacoma, Washington in December 2007 to be a subcontractor to us for Part B of the contract. Once the design and cost estimate are complete, we are contractually obligated to negotiate a price and delivery schedule for Part B of the contract, covering the construction of the ferry, with W SF. The timetable for the contract execution of Part B is dependent upon the availability of funds from WSF. There are no assurances that we will reach agreement with WSF on a price for construction of the ferries, a mutually acceptable delivery schedule, or that the necessary funding will be available from the State of Washington to build any or all of the ferries. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we negotiated a change order to Part A of the contract with WSF for the execution of the detailed production design of the 144-Auto Ferries in the amount of $8.3 million. The change order was effective January 27, 2010 and the design work is scheduled to be completed by June 2011. We have subcontracted substantial production design services to GPA. COMPETITION DOMESTIC Competition in the domestic ship repair and overhaul industry is intense. The reduced size of the Government's active duty fleet has resulted in a significant decline in the total amount of Government business available to private sector shipyards, creating excess shipyard capacity and acute price competition. We compete for commercial and Government work with a number of other shipyards in a severely cost conscious environment. Our competitors for repair, maintenance and overhaul work include non-union shipyards and shipyards with excess capacity. Our competitors for new construction work, in addition to West Coast competitors, include Gulf Coast and East Coast shipyards with lower wage structures, substantial financial resources or significant investments in productivity enhancing facilities. Competition for domestic construction and repair opportunities will continue to be intense as some of our larger competitors have more modern facilities, lower labor cost structures, or acc ess to greater financial resources. FOREIGN Opportunities for us to serve non-United States ship owners or operators are limited because shipyards in foreign countries are often subsidized by their governments and in some cases enjoy significantly lower labor costs. Subsidies can allow foreign shipyards to enter into production contracts at prices below their actual production costs. COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES We intend to continue capitalizing on the advantages of our geographic location and the skills of our experienced workforce as we compete for repair, maintenance, new construction, and overhaul opportunities. CUSTOMERS In fiscal year 2010, we serviced approximately 84 customers, both as the prime contractor and as a subcontractor to the prime contractor, compared with 109 in 2009. Our three largest customers are the Navy, WSF and the Coast Guard. Our business with the Navy and the Coast Guard is typically done through multi-year cost-type and fixed-priced contracts. Our business with WSF is done with short duration repair contracts and new construction contracts for auto ferries. A loss of any of these significant customers could have an adverse effect upon our business. DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUES The approximate distribution of our shipyard revenues for each of the last three fiscal years is summarized as follows: 2010 2009 2008 GOVERNMENT 95% 65% 76% NON - GOVERNMENT 5% 35% 24% 100% 100% 100% Government revenue consists of revenue on only federal, state and local Government jobs for which we were the prime contractor and excludes revenue where we were the subcontractor. Revenues earned as a subcontractor are included in non-Government revenues. Work volumes and revenue are closely tied to the timing of availabilities for certain Navy and Coast Guard vessels covered by our long-term Government contracts. The increase from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2010 in revenue from Government sources was primarily driven by increased work demand by Government customers for the vessel availabilities coinciding with our fiscal year 2010 and the construction of the 64-Auto Ferry for WSF. Revenue continues to be strongly influenced by the amount and timing of repair, maintenance and overhaul work awarded under the remaining Navy cost-type contracts (see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7) - "Significant Revenue Contracts"). BACKLOG At March 28, 2010, our backlog consisted of approximately $144.9 million of ship repair, maintenance, new construction, and conversion work. This compares with backlogs of approximately $84.0 million and $12.0 million at March 29, 2009 and March 30, 2008, respectively. Our backlog is primarily attributable to new construction scheduled for completion during fiscal year 2011 and 2012. The increase in backlog from fiscal year 2009 to 2010 is due primarily to the fiscal year 2010 award of a $114.1 million contract to build two additional 64-Auto Ferries for WSF. AVAILABILITY OF MATERIALS The principal materials we use in our Shipyards are steel and aluminum plates and shapes, pipe and fittings, paint and electrical cable and associated fittings. Management believes that each of these items can presently be obtained in the domestic market from a number of different suppliers. In addition, we maintain a small on-site inventory of various materials that are available for emergency ship repairs. AVAILABLE INFORMATION General information about us can be found at www.toddpacific.com. The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed by the Company with the SEC. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Our SEC filings, including any amendments, and our Current Reports on Form 8-K may be obtained at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street N.E. Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC issuers, including Todd Shipyards Corporation. EMPLOYEES The number of people we employ varies considerably and depends primarily on the level of shipyard activity. Employment averaged approximately 800 during fiscal year 2010 and totaled approximately 800 employees on March 28, 2010. In September 2008, we reached an agreement for a new collective bargaining agreement with the Puget Sound Metal Trades Council (the bargaining umbrella for all unions at Todd Pacific) which was subsequently ratified by the rank and file members at the Seattle shipyard. The five-year agreement, which was retroactive to August 1, 2008, will expire on July 31, 2013. The agreement provides for increases in the wages and fringe benefits at a rate of approximately 4.5% per year. The shipyard workers employed by ESI are represented by the Boilermakers and Carpenters Unions under a separate collective bargaining agreement that will expire July 31, 2010. During fiscal year 2010, an average of approximately 600 of our Shipyard employees were covered by these union contracts. At March 28, 2010, approximately 600 workers were employed under these contracts. We consider our relations with the various unions to be stable. ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF EVERETT SHIPYARD, INC. On March 31, 2008, our subsidiary, Everett, acquired the assets of Everett Shipyard, Inc., and Everett subsequently changed its name to ESI. ESI performs ship repair work for a range of government and commercial customers, including the Navy and WSF, in Everett, Washington. The acquired assets include a 1,000 ton dry dock which allows ESI to compete in a broader market of marine repair and overhaul opportunities. ESI and Todd Pacific do not generally compete for the same contracts. ESI employs the same workforce as the previous owner and assumed the previous owner's collective bargaining agreements with the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Local 104 and the United Brotherhood of Carpenters, Local 1184. REGULATORY MATTERS ENVIRONMENTAL AND BODILY INJURY MATTERS We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. Fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with these laws. We have an accrued liability of $10.9 million as of March 28, 2010 for environmental and bodily injury matters. As assessments of environmental matters and remediation activities progress, we review these liabilities regularly and adjust them to reflect additional technical, engineering and legal information that becomes available. Our estimate of environmental liabilities is affected by several uncertainties such as, but not limited to, the method and extent of remediation of contaminated sites, the percentage of material attributable to us at the sites relative to that attributable to other parties, and the financial capabilities of the other Potentially Responsible Parties ("PRP") at most sites. Our estimate of bodily injury liabilities is also affected as additional information becomes known regarding alleged damages from past exposure to asbestos at our facilities. We are covered under various insurance policies for some, but not a ll, potential environmental and bodily injury liabilities. As of March 28, 2010, we recorded insurance receivables of $7.6 million, which mitigates a major portion of the accrued environmental and bodily injury liabilities. For further information regarding our environmental and bodily injury matters see Legal Proceedings (Item 3), Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7) and Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8). SAFETY MATTERS We are also subject to the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA") and similar state statutes. We have an extensive health and safety program and employ a staff of safety/fire inspectors whose primary functions are to monitor in-process work to assure safety protocols are followed. Company policies meet or exceed the safety standards set by OSHA. Production employees are required to attend regularly scheduled safety training meetings. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or otherwise adversely affect our business. Economic downturns and reductions in Government funding could have a negative impact on our business. We derive significant portions of our revenues from contracts that are funded by the Government. Our ability to obtain future Government work at reasonable margins is highly dependent on the amount of work that is available to bid, which is largely a function of the level of Government funding available. The availability of Government funding also affects the long-term contracts we currently have as the contacts are based on options that the Government could choose not to exercise if funding is cut back or not available at all. The availability of funding could also affect whether or not those long-term Government contracts are renewed. We also perform commercial work for customers in the private sector. The availability of this private sector work can be significantly adversely affected by general economic downturns and by fluctuations in specific customers' economic circumstance s. Our cost-type Government contracts provide the Government with the option to have us perform repair, maintenance and overhaul activities on certain Government ships, and in some cases at certain Government facilities. While work on these ships is typically done at reasonably predictable intervals, those intervals can be substantially altered as a result of changing military priorities and other unexpected deployments. Furthermore, a decision by the Government to redeploy these ships to another permanent geographic location could have a negative impact on our business depending on that location. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to win renewal of any cost-type Government contracts. Even in the absence of geographic reassignment or other necessity, the Government remains free to elect to have work done by other parties that is contemplated to be done under their contracts with us. Our fixed-price contracts subject us to the risk of increased project cost. The profitability of fixed-price contracts can be adversely affected by a number of factors that can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of the original bid. Even in situations in which some of such increased costs arise as a result of customer initiated or approved change orders, there may be a delay or dispute as to the amount of increased revenue due to us. Our accounting for revenues and costs involves significant estimates. As further described in "Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments" under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation (Item 7), accounting for contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and the results of operations. On a regular basis, we monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, costs incurred and al located to contracts with the Government are routinely audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"). The Government has the ability to recover or disallow any costs which are improperly charged against or allocated to the contracts. Certain reviews by the Government of our cost accounting in Government contracts are discussed in more detail in "Environmental Matters and Other Contingencies" under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation (Item 7). Future profitability depends largely on our ability to maintain an adequate volume of ship repair, overhaul and conversion business to augment our longer-term contracts. The variables affecting our business volume include public support provided to competing Northwest shipyards, excess West Coast and industry-wide shipyard capacity, domestic and foreign competition, governmental legislation and regulatory issues, activity levels of the Navy and other customers, competitors' pricing behavior, and our labor efficiencies, work practices and estimating abilities. Other factors that can contribute to future profitability include the amounts of annual expenditures needed to ensure continuing serviceability of our owned and leased machinery and equipment. Our long-term success in managing a profitable operation at ESI will depend on the availability of a sufficient volume of profitable work including pier-side WSF repairs and continued work on small water craft for a variety of customers, both pier-side and in drydock. As more fully described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, we have been named as a defendant in civil actions by parties alleging damages from past exposure to toxic substances, generally asbestos, at our Seattle shipyard and at closed former facilities. We are currently defending approximately 565 such claims, 10 of which are considered significant. We have insurance agreements in place to cover these potential liabilities but we expect a portion of that coverage, based on historical data, to be exhausted in approximately two years. The continued defense and settlement of these claims, after exhaustion of one of the insuring agreements, could have a significant impact on our profitability. We have various insurance policies and agreements that provide coverage of the costs to remediate environmental sites and for the defense and settlement of bodily injury cases. These policies and agreements are primarily with two insurance companies. Based upon the current credit ratings of both th ese companies, we anticipate both insurers will be able to perform under their respective policy or agreement. However, if this assumption is incorrect and either or both of these companies are unable to meet their future financial commitments, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We use certain commodity products subject to significant price fluctuations. We use petroleum-based products to fuel and lubricate our equipment. We also use steel and other commodities in projects, which can be subject to significant price fluctuations. We have not been significantly adversely affected by commodity price fluctuations in the past; however, there is no guarantee that we will not be in the future. The trading volume in our common stock does not provide significant liquidity which can result in substantial price moves either on the buy side or the sell side in the event there is a change in demand. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may impact us unfavorably. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For these reasons, we caution the reader not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 