Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks That May Affect Future Results In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business operations, important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include: We face competition that may reduce our market share and margins. We are in a highly competitive industry and the dollar amount and unit volume of our sales could be negatively affected by: • our inability to maintain or increase prices, • changes in geographic or product mix, • a general decline in beverage alcohol consumption, or • the decision of wholesale customers, retailers or consumers to purchase competitors’ products instead of our products. Since March 2003, no less than four of our largest competitors – Bacardi, Diageo, Allied Domecq and Pernod Ricard – have introduced competitive flavored rum product offerings. Each of these competitors has greater financial resources than we do. Wholesaler, retailer and consumer purchasing decisions are influenced by, among other things, the perceived absolute or relative overall value of our products, including their quality or pricing, compared to competitive products. Unit volume and dollar sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising or promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and provincial agencies, and retailers, which could affect their supply of, or consumer demand for, our products. We could also experience higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses if our management finds it necessary to increase the number of personnel or advertising or promotional expenditures to maintain our competitive position or for other reasons. Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in our market share, which would adversely affect our results and hinder our growth potential. Our bottling operations have declined in recent fiscal years, and may continue to decline. Net sales of our bottling operations were $13.0 million, $11.9 million and $14.3 million for Fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2004, we lost a large private label-bottling customer that accounted for approximately 17.6% of our bottling operations net sales and 5.2% of our bottling operations volume. Sales in our bottling operations have also declined as a result of a contraction in the ready-to-drink product category, for which we are a contract bottler. Responding to this decline, in July 2004, we completed the partial consolidation of our bottling operations to reduce overhead. However, bottling operations volume did not even meet management’s reduced expectations for Fiscal 2004, which caused a continuing loss in this segment. We have been placing a renewed emphasis on the sales effort in this segment, seeking other contract bottling opportunities. We have explored other alternatives in our two bottling facilities, including further consolidation, a partial sale and shedding less profitable product lines. In December 2004, management discontinued production of all products in the Lake Alfred bottling plant with the exception of one production line bottling vinegar, cooking wine and juices. In January 2005, we reduced the operation of this bottling line to one shift. Management cannot assure that its efforts will be successful, or that this segment will experience operating profits in the future. 10 Our premium branded spirits segment has experienced, and may continue to experience, operating losses as we reinvest our gross profit from that and other segments in our selling, general and administrative expense for the premium branded spirits segment. Net sales of our premium branded spirits segment, which includes Cruzan Estate Rums and Cruzan Flavored Rums, for Fiscal 2005 increased by 22.6% compared to Fiscal 2004. However, during Fiscal 2005, our premium branded spirits segment’s operating losses only improved to $7.3 million from operating losses of $7.6 million in Fiscal 2004. These operating losses reflect management’s continuing efforts to increase market share by reinvesting this and other segments’ gross profits in selling and marketing expenses for the premium branded spirits segment in an effort to support the continued growth of our Cruzan brand. Management intends to continue its increased expenditures in 2006 to maintain the growth of the Cruzan brand. We cannot assure that our increased selling and marketing efforts will be successful, or that this segment will experience operating profits in the future. The seasonality of our business and the timing of orders could cause operating results to fluctuate. The size and timing of purchase orders and product shipments can cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, particularly since some customers purchase bulk alcohol products in significant quantities at one time or place significant orders at one time for contract bottling services, vinegar and cooking wine. Additionally, some of our products generate higher profit margins than others, and changes in our product mix will therefore cause gross margins to fluctuate. Certain aspects of our business are also seasonal, with increased demand for our contract bottling services from April to October and increased production of some of our bulk alcohol products from November to June, corresponding to the Florida citrus-harvest. As a result of these factors, our operating results may be erratic, varying significantly from quarter to quarter. Our dependence on distribution channels may limit our ability to sell our products. We sell our private label products and premium branded spirits principally to wholesalers for resale to retail outlets, including package liquor stores and restaurants. The replacement or poor performance of our principal wholesalers or our inability to collect accounts receivable from our principal wholesalers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Distribution channels for alcoholic beverages have been characterized in recent years by rapid change, including consolidations of certain wholesalers. Wholesalers and retailers of our products offer products which compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, there is a risk that these wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to competitor products. We cannot assure that our wholesalers and retailers will continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support. We must maintain a relatively large inventory of our products to support customer delivery requirements, and if this inventory becomes obsolete and we are required to write down our inventory, our operating results would be adversely affected. We must maintain a relatively large inventory to meet customer delivery requirements for our products, including those in our bulk alcohol, premium branded spirits, bottling operations, and vinegar and cooking wine segments. Inventory may become obsolete as we and our customers introduce new products, cease to produce old products, or modify the design of a product’s packaging. We maintain a provision for inventory obsolescence to cover potential write-downs in inventory for obsolescence, but we cannot assure that this provision is adequate, and inventory obsolescence could harm our operating results. An increase in excise taxes or government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the United States and other countries in which we operate, we are subject to the imposition of excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products in varying amounts which have been subject to change. Significant increases in excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Many states have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased, state alcohol excise taxes. In addition, federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies extensively regulate the beverage alcohol industry concerning such matters as licensing, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Certain federal and state regulations 11 also require warning labels and signage. New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements or taxes could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. A decline in the consumption of products we sell could adversely affect our sales revenues or margin. There have been periods in the past in which there were substantial declines in the overall per capita consumption of beverage alcohol products in the United States and other markets in which we operate. A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including: • a decline in the popularity of flavored spirits; • demographic and social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns and a downturn in economic conditions; • increased concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products and about drinking and driving; • increased activity of anti-alcohol consumer groups; and • increased federal, state or foreign excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products. Any decline in the consumption of products we sell could have a significant adverse effect on our sales revenue or margin. A small number of customers account for a high percentage of our net sales and if we lose a few customers or are unable to attract new customers, our net sales could decline. Our bulk alcohol, contract bottling services and private label products are sold to a relatively small number of customers and we have large customers for vinegar and cooking wine. The loss of a few of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. For example, our net sales for our bottling operations decreased 16.6% between Fiscal 2003 and Fiscal 2004, and 23.5% between Fiscal 2002 and Fiscal 2003 largely because of the loss of two large customers. We cannot assure that we will not lose other customers. We expect that sales of certain products to a small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. For example, for Fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 28%, 43% and 58%, respectively, of our total net sales. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our current customers, and to attract new customers. The loss of one or several customers, whether through termination of agreements, acquisitions or bankruptcy, could significantly reduce our net sales. Changes in the regulatory environment for the operation of our business or those of our customers could pose risks and increased expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new rules subsequently implemented by the Commission have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. In addition to final rules and rule proposals already made by the Commission, the American Stock Exchange has adopted revisions to its requirements for listed companies. We continue to review all of our accounting policies and practices, legal disclosure and corporate governance policies under the new legislation, including those related to our relationships with our independent auditors, enhanced financial disclosures, internal controls, board and board committee practices, corporate responsibility and loan practices, and we intend fully to continue to comply with such laws. Management expects these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on the various committees of the Board, including and in particular, the audit committee. In addition, compliance with new rules imposed by the Commission and the American Stock Exchange will likely cause us to incur increased expenses, including legal and accounting expenses. 12 If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in selling to international customers, our net sales and financial results could decline. We derived 5% of our net sales from international sales in Fiscal 2005 and 8% in Fiscal 2004. Management plans to expand net sales and to grow our international operations. We have limited experience in international sales and may not be able to compete or operate effectively in international markets. We face certain risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and imposition of currency exchange controls; • language and translation issues; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • changes in regulatory requirements; • political and economic instability; and • potential adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors could harm our international sales and, consequently, our business and operating results. Specifically, failure to successfully manage international growth could result in higher operating costs than anticipated or could delay or preclude altogether our ability to generate net sales in key international markets. We have a material amount of goodwill and adverse results in operations could result in a write-down of goodwill, which would further adversely affect our results of operations. As of September 30, 2005, goodwill represented approximately $20.5 million, or 15% of our total assets. Goodwill is the amount by which the costs of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142 (“SFAS No. 142”), “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” in its entirety, on October 1, 2001. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized, but instead is subject to a periodic impairment evaluation based on the fair value of the reporting unit. Reductions in our net income caused by a write-down of goodwill could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse public opinion about alcohol may harm our business. In recent years there has been substantial publicity regarding the possible health benefits of moderate alcohol consumption. The results of a number of studies suggest that moderate consumption of beverage alcohol could result in decreased mortality, lower risk of cardiovascular disease, and other health benefits. Alternatively, anti-alcohol groups have, in the past, successfully advocated more stringent labeling requirements and other regulations designed to discourage consumption of beverage alcohol. More restrictive regulations, negative publicity regarding alcohol consumption, publication of studies that indicate a significant health risk from moderate consumption of alcohol or changes in consumer perceptions of the relative healthfulness or safety of beverage alcohol generally could adversely affect the sale and consumption of alcohol and the demand for beverage alcohol and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 