ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Alanco involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in determining whether or not to purchase shares of Alanco Class A Common Stock. These matters should be considered in conjunction with the other information included or incorporated by reference in this filing. This Form 10-K contains statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements appear in a number of places and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of our management, directors or officers primarily with respect to our future operating performance. Prospective purchasers of our securities are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. The information set out below, identifies important factors that could cause such differences. See “Safe Harbor Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.” 6 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We may not be able to reach the sales goals anticipated from the StarTrak Systems acquisition. We acquired the operations of StarTrak Systems, LLC (“StarTrak”) effective June 30, 2006. StarTrak is a leading provider of wireless tracking and subscription data services to the transportation industry, with a focus upon the refrigerated or “Reefer” segment of the transport industry. StarTrak provides wireless (including GPS, cellular and radio) tracking, monitoring and control services to this market. We are anticipating significant revenue growth from sales of StarTrak products in the transportation market. There is no certainty that we will be able to capture the required market share for StarTrak to achieve its anticipated financial success. The StarTrak system is currently being marketed to the transportation market as a tool to increase efficiency and reduce costs of the refrigerated supply chain by wireless monitoring and control of critical Reefer data, including GPS location, cargo temperatures and Reefer fuel levels. Although StarTrak is the dominant provider for tracking, management and control services of the refrigeration transport market and is currently the only tracking system, to the best of our knowledge, which is able to provide direct interaction with the customer allowing for remote adjustments of variables controlled by the unit, there are other tracking/monitoring systems being marketed to the refrigerated transport industry. There is no certainty that the transportation industry will adopt this technology broadly enough for us to reach our marketing projections. The loss of key StarTrak personnel would have a negative impact on our StarTrak business and technology development. Our StarTrak technology is reliant on key personnel who developed and understand the technology. We have short-term contracts with some key personnel, but have no assurance that such personnel will remain with the Company on a long-term basis. The loss of the services of those key technology personnel could have an adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition of our company. We may continue to experience lower than anticipated sales in our TSI PRISM division. We acquired the business and assets of Technology Systems International, Inc. (“TSI”) effective June 2002, creating the Company’s RFID Technology segment. During fiscal 2005, we changed the name of Technology Systems International, Inc. to Alanco/TSI PRISM, Inc. (“ATSI”). We had anticipated significant revenue growth from sales of the TSI PRISM tracking system in the corrections market in prior years which was not realized. We continue to anticipate future significant revenue growth from sales of the TSI PRISM tracking system; however, there is no certainty that we will be able to capture the required market share for ATSI to achieve its anticipated financial success. The TSI PRISM system is currently being marketed to the corrections market as a prison and jail management tool and officer safety system. Although there are other inmate and officer monitoring systems being marketed to the corrections industry, the TSI PRISM system is currently the only system, to the best of our knowledge, which is able to continuously (every two seconds) monitor the location of both officers and prisoners, both inside and outside of buildings. There is no certainty that the corrections industry will adopt this technology broadly enough for us to reach our marketing projections. The loss of key ATSI personnel would have a negative impact on our ATSI business and technology development. Our TSI PRISM technology is reliant on key personnel who developed and understand the technology. We have no employment contracts with any of our ATSI personnel. The loss of the services of those key technology personnel could have an adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition of our company, and our ability to continue to develop products economically and competitively. We are subject to the budget constraints of the governmental agencies purchasing TSI PRISM systems, which could result in a significant decrease in our anticipated revenues. We cannot assure you that the governmental agencies we anticipate purchasing our TSI PRISM systems will have the necessary revenue to purchase the systems even though they may want to do so. The funds available to governmental agencies are subject to various economic and political influences. Even though the TSI PRISM system may be recommended for purchase by corrections facility managers, the governmental agency responsible for the facility may not have sufficient budget resources to purchase the system. Worsening general economic conditions may negatively affect our potential customers' ability and willingness to purchase the products sold by our Company. Both our RFID Technology and our Data Storage segment rely on a strong economy to support technology spending by our customers. Our Data Storage segment sells network attached storage systems to mid-sized network users. Previous deterioration in general economic conditions resulted in reduced spending by our customers for technology in general, including the products sold by us. We have the ability to reduce overhead to assist in offsetting our reduced sales volume; however, if the economic conditions were to deteriorate, we could experience a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial conditions. See previous section discussing the budget constraints of our RFID government customers. As some government funding is supplied by sales tax and income tax revenues, a reduction in economic activity reduces governmental revenues and the monies that can be budgeted for TSI PRISM systems. 7 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Acts of domestic terrorism and war have impacted general economic conditions and may impact the industry and our ability to operate profitably.On September 11, 2001, acts of terrorism occurred in New York City and Washington, D.C. On October 7, 2001, the United States launched military actions on Afghanistan, and in 2003 launched military attacks on Iraq with ongoing operations in both areas. As a result of those terrorist acts and military actions, there has been a disruption in general economic activity and a diversion of governmental funding to those endeavors that would otherwise have been available for the purchase of products and systems such as those sold by the Company. There may be other consequences resulting from those acts of terrorism, and any others which may occur in the future, including civil disturbance, war, riot, epidemics, public demonstration, explosion, freight embargoes, governmental action, governmental delay, restraint or inaction, quarantine restrictions, unavailability of capital, equipment, personnel, which we may not be able to anticipate. These terrorist acts and acts of war may continue to impact the economy, and in turn, reduce the demand for our products and services, which would harm our ability to make a profit. Also, as federal dollars are redirected to military efforts, they may not be available for the purchase of new federal prison monitoring systems from our ATSI subsidiary. The Company may not have sufficient capital to meet its liquidity needs if we are not able to carry out our fiscal year 2009 operating plan; Uncertainty of proceeds and additional financing. The Company incurred significant losses during fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008 and has experienced significant losses in prior years. Although management cannot assure that future operations will be profitable or that additional debt and/or equity capital will be raised, we believe that, based on our fiscal 2010 operating plan, cash flow and additional funding sources will be adequate to meet our anticipated future requirements for working capital expenditures, scheduled lease payments and scheduled payments of interest on our indebtedness. We will need to materially reduce expenses, or raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or both, if the revenue and cash flow elements of our 2010 operating plan are not met. If we need to seek additional financing to meet working capital requirements, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our business, operating results, financial condition and ability to continue operations will be materially adversely affected. If we raise additional funds through the sale of stock, our existing Alanco shareholders will experience dilution and may be subject to newly issued senior securities. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of the then current shareholders of the Company will be reduced, and such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of Class A Common Stock. Our StarTrak and ATSI intellectual property protection may not be sufficient to maintain the value of such property rights. Our primary business strategy is to develop the StarTrak and ATSI business opportunities. The long-term success of this strategy depends in part upon the StarTrak and ATSI intellectual property acquired. Although we are not currently aware of any conflicting technology rights, third parties may hold United States or foreign patents which may be asserted in the future against the StarTrak and ATSI technology, and there is no assurance that any license that might be required under such patents could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, or otherwise. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our efforts to prohibit others from infringing upon our StarTrak and ATSI intellectual property may not be adequate. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights both in the United States and abroad, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so or that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter infringement, misuse, misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology or intellectual property rights or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products or technology. Litigation may also become necessary to defend or enforce our proprietary rights. Any of such events could have a negative impact on our competitive position in the markets we serve. The loss of key corporate or subsidiary executives would have a negative effect on our Company. Our performance is substantially dependent on the services and performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition due to their extensive industry specific knowledge and comprehensive operating plans for the Company. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales, operations and managerial personnel. 8 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Additional competitors to StarTrak may arise that could affect the future projected StarTrak business. Although StarTrak currently is the dominant provider of tracking, management and control services of refrigeration transport Reefer units, it can be expected that if, and to the extent that, the demand for the StarTrak technology increases, the number of competitors will likely increase. Increasing competition could adversely affect the amount of new business we are able to attract, the rates we are able to charge for our services and/or products, or both. Additional competitors to the TSI PRISM business may arise that could affect the future projected TSI PRISM business. Although early in the market development cycle, the TSI PRISM business/technology has no current, identified direct competitors capable of the same performance levels as the TSI PRISM system. There are other companies attempting to introduce area location and monitoring technologies in the correctional facilities market who offer area or zone detection systems that are not capable of providing continuous real-time tracking at this time. However, it can be expected that if, and to the extent that, the demand for the ATSI technology increases, the number of competitors will likely increase, as will their capabilities. Increasing competition could adversely affect the amount of new business we are able to attract, the rates we are able to charge for our services and/or products, or both. We may not be able to sell our Excel Meridian Data subsidiary, reported as Assets held for sale at June 30, 2009. Because of the current economic downturn and Excel’s lack of sustained profitability, we may be unable to sell Excel, or may be unable to sell Excel for a value equal to or greater than its carrying value as of June 30, 2009. If Excel continues as a subsidiary, we may lack the capital for our Excel Meridian Data subsidiary to compete effectively in the data storage market. Because we are significantly smaller than many of our competitors in the data storage business, we may lack the capital required to increase our market share. We operate in a very competitive environment, competing against numerous other companies, many of whom have greater financial resources and market position than we do. We may not be able to maintain NASDAQ listing if we are unable to achieve a stock price above the minimum $1.00 bid price per share. Our Class A Common Stock currently trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “ALAN.” However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our Class A Common Stock will be available at any particular future time. The Company was notified by Nasdaq on September 15, 2009 that the Company failed to comply with the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing as set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310 (c) (4) (the “Rule”). Therefore in accordance with the Rule, the Company will be provided 180 calendar days or until March 15, 2010, to regain compliance. If the bid price of the Company’s common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days, NASDAQ Staff will provide written notification that it complies with the rule. If compliance with this Rule cannot be demonstrated by March 15, 2010, Staff will determine whether the Company meets the NASDAQ Smallcap Market initial listing criteria as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310 (c), except for the bid price requirement. If it meets the initial listing criteria, Staff will notify the Company that it has been granted an additional 180 calendar days to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. If the Company is not eligible for an additional compliance period, Staff will provide written notification that the Company’s securities will be delisted. At that time, the Company may appeal Staff’s determination to delist its securities to a Listing Qualification Panel. There can be no assurance that the Company’s stock will trade above the minimum NASDAQ $1.00 per share bid requirement, or that the company will meet, on March 15, 2010, Nasdaq Small cap Market initial listing criteria, except the minimum bid price requirement, as discussed above, or that the Company will be able to maintain listing requirements in the future, resulting in additional notifications that delisting may occur. The Company does not anticipate payment of dividends on Common Stock. We do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends by us will depend on our earnings, financial condition, and such other factors, as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. We currently plan to retain earnings to provide for the development of our business. Our articles of incorporation and Arizona law may have the effect of making it more expensive or more difficult for a third party to acquire, or to acquire control of, us.Our articles of incorporation make it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of us. Arizona law prohibits a publicly held Arizona corporation from engaging in certain business combinations with certain persons, who acquire our securities with the intent of engaging in a business combination, unless the proposed transaction is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision has the effect of discouraging transactions not approved by our Board of Directors as required by the statute which may discourage third parties from attempting to acquire us or to acquire control of us even if the attempt would result in a premium over market price for the shares of common stock held by our shareholders. 9 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Certain provisions in our Alanco shareholder rights plan may discourage a takeover attempt.We have implemented a shareholder rights plan which could make an unsolicited takeover of our company more difficult. As a result, shareholders holding a controlling block of shares may be deprived of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing market prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the market price of our common stock. The market price of Alanco Class A Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · progress of our products through development and marketing; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · government regulatory action affecting our products or competitors' products in both the United States and foreign countries; · developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · the loss of key management or technical personnel; · the loss of major customers or suppliers; · the outcome of any future litigation; · changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; · general market conditions for emerging growth and technology companies; · broad market fluctuations; · recovery from natural disasters; and · economic conditions in the United States or abroad. Future sales of Alanco Class A Common Stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise funds in new equity offerings. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. For example, the availability of the shares covered by S-3 registration statements for sale, or of common stock by our existing stockholders under Rule 144, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 