ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Alanco involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in determining whether or not to purchase shares of Alanco Class A Common Stock. These matters should be considered in conjunction with the other information included or incorporated by reference in this filing. This Form 10-K contains statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements appear in a number of places and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of our management, directors or officers primarily with respect to our future operating performance. Prospective purchasers of our securities are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. The information set out below, identifies important factors that could cause such differences. See “Safe Harbor Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.” We may not be able to finalize our business plans. We have completed the initial acquisition of assets and developed the Deer Creek site for AES’s water treatment and disposal business. However, the 160 acre Indian Mesa site is still in the permitting stage and cannot be developed until the requested permits for both produced water treatment and disposal and land fill/farming are acted upon. There is no assurance that the Indian Mesa permitting process will be successfully completed or that we have the capital to fund the Indian Mesa development. The loss of key personnel would have a negative impact on our business and future development objectives. Our strategy is reliant on key personnel who understand businesses in which we invested. We have certain incentives to retain key personnel, but have no assurance that such personnel will remain with the Company on a long-term basis. The loss of the services of those key personnel could have an adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition of our company. Worsening general economic conditions may negatively affect our ability to complete development and declining stock prices may negatively affect the value of our marketable securities. Previous deterioration in general economic conditions resulted in reduced stock valuations and a decline in merger and acquisition activities. Acts of domestic terrorism and war impacted general economic conditions and our ability to operate profitably. As a result of terrorist acts and resulting military actions, there has been a disruption in general economic activity. There may be other consequences resulting from past acts of terrorism, and any others which may occur in the future, including civil disturbance, war, riot, epidemics, public demonstration, explosion, freight embargoes, governmental action, governmental delay, restraint or inaction, quarantine restrictions, unavailability of capital, equipment, and personnel, which we may not be able to anticipate. These terrorist acts and acts of war may continue to impact the economy, and in turn, impact our ability to consummate a business combination and may reduce the demand for the products and services produced by the resultant business, which would harm our ability to make a profit. The Company may not have sufficient capital to meet the liquidity needs to develop assets or otherwise pursue its business plan; and there is no assurance that additional capital can be obtained through the sale of stock or additional financing. Although management cannot assure that future operations will be profitable or that additional debt and/or equity capital will be raised, we believe that, based on our fiscal 2014 operating plan, cash flow and additional funding sources will be adequate to meet our anticipated future requirements for working capital expenditures and scheduled lease payments for the next twelve months. We will need to materially reduce expenses, or raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or both, if the revenue and cash flow elements of our 2014 operating plan are not met. If we need to seek additional financing to meet working capital requirements, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our business, operating results, financial condition and ability to continue operations will be materially adversely affected. 3 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The substantial portion of our assets are invested in ORBCOMM Inc. (NASDAQ: ORBC) Common Stock. Because the consideration we received from ORBCOMM for substantially all of the assets of our subsidiary, StarTrak Systems, LLC, consists of ORBCOMM Common Stock, such stock remains one of our primary assets. Our agreement with ORBCOMM prevents us from liquidating the ORBCOMM stock at a rate in excess of 279,600 shares per month. Also, we anticipate selling such stock over a period of time to maximize our return. As long as the ORBCOMM Common Stock constitutes a substantial portion of our assets, fluctuations in the market price of such stock may significantly affect our value. If we raise additional funds through the sale of stock, our existing Alanco shareholders will experience dilution and may be subject to newly issued senior securities. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of the then current shareholders of the Company will be reduced, and such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of Class A Common Stock. The loss of key corporate executives may have a negative effect on our Company. Our performance is substantially dependent on the services and performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition due to their extensive specific knowledge and comprehensive operating plans for the Company. Irrespective of any business operations, our future success will depend on our ability to attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales, operations and managerial personnel. The market for the Company’s Alanco Energy Services, Inc. produced water disposal services may not be large enough to support the additional capacity created by the development of the Deer Creek water disposal site. Capital costs for the Deer Creek water disposal site require certain volumes, at certain prices per barrel, of produced water to be deposited for the Deer Creek operation to be successful. If the volume of produced water received is less than projected, or the price obtained per barrel is less than anticipated, or if operating costs are more than projected, the Deer Creek operation could have an adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition of our company. Changing technology related to the disposal of produced water may result in the development of more cost effective methods than the evaporation method used at the Deer Creek facility. We do not believe a more cost effective method will be available in the near future, however, if improved methods are developed, the volume of produced water received at the Deer Creek facility and/or the price obtained per barrel may be less than anticipated and could have an adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition of our Company. The Company does not anticipate payment of dividends on Common Stock. We do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends by us will depend on our earnings, financial condition, and such other factors, as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. We currently plan to retain earnings, if any, to provide for the development of our business. Our articles of incorporation and Arizona law may have the effect of making it more expensive or more difficult for a third party to acquire, or to acquire control of us. Our articles of incorporation make it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of us. Arizona law prohibits a publicly held Arizona corporation from engaging in certain business combinations with certain persons, who acquire our securities with the intent of engaging in a business combination, unless the proposed transaction is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision has the effect of discouraging transactions not approved by our Board of Directors as required by the statute which may discourage third parties from attempting to acquire us or to acquire control of us even if the attempt would result in a premium over market price for the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. Certain provisions in our Alanco shareholder rights plan may discourage a takeover attempt. We have implemented a shareholder rights plan which could make an unsolicited takeover of our company more difficult. As a result, shareholders holding a controlling block of shares may be deprived of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing market prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the market price of our common stock. 4 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The market price of Alanco Class A Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: 1. actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 2. the loss of key management or technical personnel; 3. the outcome of any current or future litigation; 4. the value of our restricted marketable securities; 5. changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; 6. broad market fluctuations; 7. recovery from natural disasters; and 8. economic conditions in the United States or abroad. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 