ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Alanco involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in determining whether or not to purchase shares of Alanco Class A Common Stock. These matters should be considered in conjunction with the other information included or incorporated by reference in this filing. This Form 10-K contains statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements appear in a number of places and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of our management, directors or officers primarily with respect to our future operating performance. Prospective purchasers of our secur ities are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. The information set out below, identifies important factors that could cause such differences. See “Safe Harbor Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.” We may not be able to reach the sales goals anticipated from the StarTrak Systems acquisition. We acquired the operations of StarTrak Systems, LLC (“StarTrak”) effective June 30, 2006. StarTrak is a leading provider of wireless tracking and subscription data services to the transportation industry, with a focus upon the refrigerated or “Reefer” segment of the transport industry. StarTrak provides wireless (including GPS, cellular and radio) tracking, monitoring and control services to this market. We are anticipating significant revenue growth from sales of StarTrak products in the transportation market. We do not have experience in the transportation mark et, and there is no certainty that we will be able to capture the required market share for StarTrak to achieve its anticipated financial success. The StarTrak system is currently being marketed to the transportation market as a tool to increase efficiency and reduce costs of the refrigerated supply chain by wireless monitoring and control of critical Reefer data, including GPS location, cargo temperatures and Reefer fuel levels. Although StarTrak is the dominant provider for tracking, management and control services of the refrigeration transport market and is currently the only tracking system, to the best of our knowledge, which is able to provide direct interaction with the customer allowing for remote adjustments of variables controlled by the unit, there are other tracking/monitoring systems being marketed to the refrigerated transport industry. There is no certainty that the transportation industry will adopt this technology broadly enough for us to reach our marketing projections. 4 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The loss of key StarTrak personnel would have a negative impact on our StarTrak business and technology development. Our StarTrak technology is reliant on key personnel who developed and understand the technology. We have short-term contracts with some key personnel, but have no assurance that such personnel will remain with the Company on a long-term basis. The loss of the services of those key technology personnel could have an adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition of our company. Worsening general economic conditions may negatively affect our potential customers’ ability and willingness to purchase the products sold by our Company. StarTrak relies on a strong economy to support technology spending by our customers. Previous deterioration in general economic conditions resulted in reduced spending by our customers for our products. We have the ability to reduce overhead to assist in offsetting reduced sales volume; however, if the economic conditions were to deteriorate, we could experience a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial conditions. Acts of domestic terrorism and war have impacted general economic conditions and may impact the industry and our ability to operate profitably. On September 11, 2001, acts of terrorism occurred in New York City and Washington, D.C. On October 7, 2001, the United States launched military actions on Afghanistan, and in 2003 launched military attacks on Iraq with ongoing operations in both areas. As a result of those terrorist acts and military actions, there has been a disruption in general economic activity. There may be other consequences resulting from those acts of terrorism, and any others which may occur in the future, including c ivil disturbance, war, riot, epidemics, public demonstration, explosion, freight embargoes, governmental action, governmental delay, restraint or inaction, quarantine restrictions, unavailability of capital, equipment, personnel, which we may not be able to anticipate. These terrorist acts and acts of war may continue to impact the economy, and in turn, reduce the demand for our products and services, which would harm our ability to make a profit. The Company may not have sufficient capital to meet its liquidity needs if we are not able to carry out our fiscal year 2011 operating plan; Uncertainty of proceeds and additional financing. The Company incurred significant losses during fiscal year 2010 and fiscal year 2009 and has experienced significant losses in prior years. Although management cannot assure that future operations will be profitable or that additional debt and/or equity capital will be raised, we believe that, based on our fiscal 2011 operating plan, cash flow and additional funding sources will be adequate to meet our anticipated future requirements for working capital expenditures, scheduled lease payments and scheduled payments of princip al and interest on our indebtedness. We will need to materially reduce expenses, or raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or both, if the revenue and cash flow elements of our 2011 operating plan are not met. If we need to seek additional financing to meet working capital requirements, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our business, operating results, financial condition and ability to continue operations will be materially adversely affected. If we raise additional funds through the sale of stock, our existing Alanco shareholders will experience dilution and may be subject to newly issued senior securities. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of the then current shareholders of the Company will be reduced, and such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of Class A Common Stock. Our StarTrak intellectual property protection may not be sufficient to maintain the value of such property rights. Our primary business strategy is to develop StarTrak business opportunities. The long-term success of this strategy depends in part upon StarTrak’s intellectual property. Although we are not currently aware of any conflicting technology rights that we deem a material issue, third parties may hold United States or foreign patents which may be asserted in the future against StarTrak, and there is no assurance that any license that might be required under such patents could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, or otherwise. Our competitors may also indepe ndently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our efforts to prohibit others from infringing upon StarTrak’s intellectual property may not be adequate. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights both in the United States and abroad, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so or that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter infringement, misuse, misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology or intellectual property rights or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products or technology. Litigation may also become necessary to defend or enforce our proprietary rights. Any of such events could have a negative impact on our competitive position in the markets we serve. 5 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The loss of key corporate or subsidiary executives would have a negative effect on our Company. Our performance is substantially dependent on the services and performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition due to their extensive industry specific knowledge and comprehensive operating plans for the Company. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales, operations and managerial personnel. At June 30, 2010, none of our executive officers are bou nd by an employment agreement, and none are covered by key-man insurance. Additional competitors to StarTrak may arise that could affect the future projected StarTrak business. Although StarTrak currently is the dominant provider of tracking, management and control services of refrigeration transport Reefer units, it can be expected that if, and to the extent that, the demand for the StarTrak technology increases, the number of competitors will likely increase. Increasing competition could adversely affect the amount of new business we are able to attract, the rates we are able to charge for our services and/or products, or both. We may not be able to maintain NASDAQ listing if we are unable to keep our stock price above the minimum $1.00 bid price per share. Our Class A Common Stock at June 30, 2010 traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “ALAN.” However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our Class A Common Stock will be available at any particular future time. The Company was notified by NASDAQ on September 15, 2009 that the Company failed to comply with the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing as set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310 (c) (4) (the “Rule”). Therefore in accordance with the Rule, the Company was provided 180 calendar days or until March 15, 2010, to regain compliance. On March 19, 2010, the Company announced that it had received a Staff Determination letter from NASDAQ indicating that the Company had not complied with the minimum bid price requirements for continued listing as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 55509(a)(2) (the “Rule”), and that its securities may be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Under the Rule, the Company appealed the Staff determination and requested a hearing before the NASDAQ Hearing Panel (the “Panel”). Under NASDAQ Listing Rules, a request for a hearing stays the delisting action pending the issuance of a written determination by the Panel. As a result of the appeal, the NASDAQ Hearing Panel determined the Company was in full compliance with all other NASDAQ continuing listing requirements and grant ed an extension until September 13, 2010 to regain the minimum NASDAQ bid price requirements of $1.00 per share. The Company announced on August 26, 2010 that its Board of Directors had elected to effect a 1 for 8 reverse stock split that became effective on Friday, August 27, 2010, when the Company’s common stock began trading on a post split-adjusted basis under the interim trading symbol “ALAND” for a period of 20 days, after which the Company’s trading symbol returned to “ALAN”. The Company had previously received authority from its shareholders to affect a reverse split at a ratio within a specified range to maintain its NASDAQ listing. On September 15, 2010, the Company announced that it had received notification from NASDAQ that the Company has regained compliance with the minimum $1.00 per share bid price requirement for continued listing, and further, that the Company complies with all other applicable standards for continuing listing of its securities on the NASDAQ Stock Market. There can be no assurance that the Company’s stock will continue to trade above the minimum NASDAQ $1.00 per share bid requirement, or that the Company will be able to maintain listing requirements in the future, resulting in additional notifications that delisting may occur. The Company does not anticipate payment of dividends on Common Stock. We do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends by us will depend on our earnings, financial condition, and such other factors, as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. We currently plan to retain earnings to provide for the development of our business. Our articles of incorporation and Arizona law may have the effect of making it more expensive or more difficult for a third party to acquire, or to acquire control of, us. Our articles of incorporation make it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of us. Arizona law prohibits a publicly held Arizona corporation from engaging in certain business combinations with certain persons, who acquire our securities with the intent of engaging in a business combination, unless the proposed transaction is approved in a prescribed manner. This pr ovision has the effect of discouraging transactions not approved by our Board of Directors as required by the statute which may discourage third parties from attempting to acquire us or to acquire control of us even if the attempt would result in a premium over market price for the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. 6 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Certain provisions in our Alanco shareholder rights plan may discourage a takeover attempt. We have implemented a shareholder rights plan which could make an unsolicited takeover of our company more difficult. As a result, shareholders holding a controlling block of shares may be deprived of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing market prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the market price of our common stock. The market price of Alanco Class A Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · progress of our products through development and marketing; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · government regulatory action affecting our products or competitors' products in both the United States and foreign countries; · developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · loss of a major lender; · the loss of key management or technical personnel; · the loss of major customers or suppliers; · the outcome of any future litigation; · changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; · general market conditions for emerging growth and technology companies; · broad market fluctuations; · recovery from natural disasters; and · economic conditions in the United States or abroad. Future sales of Alanco Class A Common Stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise funds in new equity offerings. We cannot predict the effect, if any, those future sales of shares of our common stock or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. For example, the availability of the shares covered by S-3 registration statements for sale, or of common stock by our existing stockholders under Rule 144, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adver sely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 