ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Alanco involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in determining whether or not to purchase shares of Alanco Class A Common Stock. These matters should be considered in conjunction with the other information included or incorporated by reference in this filing. This Form 10-K contains statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements appear in a number of places and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of our management, directors or officers primarily with respect to our future operating performance. Prospective purchasers of our securities are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. The information set out below, identifies important factors that could cause such differences. See “Safe Harbor Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.” We may not be able to finalize a business combination. We are continuing our investigation of various possible business combinations. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to arrange or consummate a successful business combination which would allow us to continue as a going concern. The loss of key personnel would have a negative impact on our business and business combination objectives. Our strategy is reliant on key personnel who understand the merger and acquisition process. We have certain incentives to retain key personnel, but have no assurance that such personnel will remain with the Company on a long-term basis. The loss of the services of those key personnel could have an adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition of our company. 3 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Worsening general economic conditions may negatively affect our ability to complete an acceptable business combination and declining stock prices may negatively affect the value of our marketable securities. Previous deterioration in general economic conditions resulted in reduced valuations and a decline in merger and acquisition activities. Acts of domestic terrorism and war have impacted general economic conditions and may impact our ability to complete a business combination or our ability to operate profitably. On September 11, 2001, acts of terrorism occurred in New York City and Washington, D.C. On October 7, 2001, the United States launched military actions on Afghanistan, and in 2003 launched military attacks on Iraq with ongoing operations in both areas. As a result of those terrorist acts and military actions, there has been a disruption in general economic activity. There may be other consequences resulting from those acts of terrorism, and any others which may occur in the future, including civil disturbance, war, riot, epidemics, public demonstration, explosion, freight embargoes, governmental action, governmental delay, restraint or inaction, quarantine restrictions, unavailability of capital, equipment, personnel, which we may not be able to anticipate. These terrorist acts and acts of war may continue to impact the economy, and in turn, impact our ability to consummate a business combination and may reduce the demand for the products and services produced by the resultant business, which would harm our ability to make a profit. The Company may not have sufficient capital to meet the liquidity needs to consummate a business combination with an acceptable candidate or otherwise pursue its business plan; and there is no assurance that additional capital can be obtained through the sale of stock or additional financing. Although management cannot assure that future operations will be profitable or that additional debt and/or equity capital will be raised, we believe that, based on our fiscal 2011 operating plan, cash flow and additional funding sources will be adequate to meet our anticipated future requirements for working capital expenditures and scheduled lease payments. We will need to materially reduce expenses, or raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or both, if the revenue and cash flow elements of our 2011 operating plan are not met. If we need to seek additional financing to meet working capital requirements, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our business, operating results, financial condition and ability to continue operations will be materially adversely affected. The majority of our assets are invested in ORBCOMM Inc. Common Stock (NASDAQ: ORBC) Common Stock. Because the consideration we received from ORBCOMM for substantially all of the assets of our subsidiary, StarTrak Systems, LLC, consists of ORBCOMM Common Stock, such stock remains our primary asset. Our agreement with ORBCOMM prevents us from liquidating the ORBCOMM stock at a rate in excess of 12.5% of such stock per month for the one-year period following the closing of sale of the StarTrak transaction. Also, we anticipate selling such stock over a period of time to maximize our return. As long as the ORBCOMM Common Stock constitutes a substantial portion of our assets, fluctuations in the market price of such stock may significantly affect our value. If we raise additional funds through the sale of stock, our existing Alanco shareholders will experience dilution and may be subject to newly issued senior securities. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of the then current shareholders of the Company will be reduced, and such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of Class A Common Stock. The loss of key corporate executives would have a negative effect on our Company. Our performance is substantially dependent on the services and performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition due to their extensive specific knowledge and comprehensive operating plans for the Company. Irrespective of any acquired business operations, our future success will depend on our ability to attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales, operations and managerial personnel. At June 30, 2011, none of our executive officers are bound by an employment agreement, and none are covered by key-man insurance. We may not be able to regain our NASDAQ listing. Effective July 26, 2011, trading of our Class A Common Stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market was suspended because we do not currently have an operating business. While our business plan is to acquire an operating business, by merger or otherwise, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire another operating business, or that we will be able to re-list on NASDAQ or any other exchange, and our stock may continue to be traded on the over the counter bulletin board market. The Company does not anticipate payment of dividends on Common Stock. We do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends by us will depend on our earnings, financial condition, and such other factors, as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. We currently plan to retain earnings, if any, to provide for the development of our business. Our articles of incorporation and Arizona law may have the effect of making it more expensive or more difficult for a third party to acquire, or to acquire control of, us. Our articles of incorporation make it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of us. Arizona law prohibits a publicly held Arizona corporation from engaging in certain business combinations with certain persons, who acquire our securities with the intent of engaging in a business combination, unless the proposed transaction is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision has the effect of discouraging transactions not approved by our Board of Directors as required by the statute which may discourage third parties from attempting to acquire us or to acquire control of us even if the attempt would result in a premium over market price for the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. 4 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Certain provisions in our Alanco shareholder rights plan may discourage a takeover attempt. We have implemented a shareholder rights plan which could make an unsolicited takeover of our company more difficult. As a result, shareholders holding a controlling block of shares may be deprived of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing market prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the market price of our common stock. The market price of Alanco Class A Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: 1. actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 2. the loss of key management or technical personnel; 3. the outcome of any current or future litigation; 4. changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; 5. broad market fluctuations; 6. recovery from natural disasters;and 7. economic conditions in the United States or abroad. Additional Risks if a Business Combination is Consummated A business combination may be highly dilutive to our existing stockholders. As a result of a business combination transaction, we may issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock and we may experience a change in control, resulting in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. Some of the combined company's executive officers or shareholders may collectively beneficially own a majority of the outstanding common stock of the combined company following a business combination, and would then be able to control or exercise significant influence over the outcome of matters to be voted on by the combined company's stockholders. Immediately following a business combination a limited number of persons or entities may collectively beneficially own a significant block of the outstanding common stock of the combined company. Accordingly, such persons or entities may be able to control or exercise significant influence with respect to the election of directors, offers to acquire the combined company and other matters submitted to a vote of the combined company's stockholders. The combined company may be unable to attract and retain, or have access to, qualified personnel in the markets the combined company would serve, which could adversely affect its results of operations by impairing its ability to grow and provide competitive services. The combined company’s ability to provide its customers with competitive services and grow partially depends on its ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve its customers in a cost effective way. If the combined company is unable to hire or otherwise obtain cost-effective access to skilled personnel in its markets, its operations may suffer. In addition, the combined company will be subject to the risk of management and employee disruption associated with the business combination transaction, including the risk that key technical, marketing and management personnel might not remain employed by the combined company through the consummation of the business combination transaction. The market price for the combined company's common stock may be highly volatile after the business combination transaction, which could impair the value of the combined company's common stock and result in litigation against the combined company. The price of the combined company's common stock could further decline due to the impact of any of the following factors: · failure to meet its sales goals or operating budget; · decline in demand for its common stock; · revenues and operating results failing to meet expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; · downward revisions in operating performance estimates or changes in general market conditions; · technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; · investor perception of its industry or prospects; or · general economic trends. 5 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Market fluctuations are often unrelated to operating performance and therefore are beyond our control. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. The combined company may become the target of similar litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. Resales by the business combinations candidate’s stockholders of shares issued to them in any business combination transaction or by stockholders who purchase securities in new financings may depress the market price of the combined company's common stock. While the combined company may not be required to register for public resale the shares of common stock issued in a business combination transaction, such shares will become salable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Future resales of these shares of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the combined company's common stock. We cannot assure you as to when, and how many of, those shares will be resold and the effect those sales may have on the market price of the combined company's common stock. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters could adversely affect the combined company's financial position and results of operations. The combined company may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of its business. The combined company's insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against them, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm the combined company's reputation. If the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed insurance coverage, they could adversely affect the combined company's financial position and results of operations. In addition, the combined company may be unable to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future. Additional Risks Because a Business Combination May Result in a Corporation Becoming Public Through a “Reverse Merger” Process. Because a business combination candidate may become public by means of a "reverse merger," the combined company may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. Additional risks may exist since the business combination candidate may become public through a "reverse merger" with us. Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of such a combined company. We cannot assure you that brokerage firms will want to conduct any secondary offerings on behalf of such a combined company in the future. The business combination transaction may involve a reverse merger of a non-public company into us and the management of such non-public company may become the management of the combined company. As a result, there is no history of compliance with United States securities laws and accounting rules by the management of the combined company. The combined company management may have no experience in managing and operating a United States public company. Any failure to comply or adequately comply with federal securities laws, rules or regulations could subject us to fines or regulatory actions, which may materially adversely affect the combined company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Additional Risks if a Business Combination Transaction Is Not Consummated We have limited cash resources available to continue our operations and our efforts to consummate a business combination transaction. Accordingly, if we are unable to timely consummate a business combination transaction or raise needed capital in the future, we may be unable to fund operating cash shortfalls. We have limited cash resources, and these resources may diminish in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including our consummation of an appropriate business combination transaction, and the development of new business opportunities, future strategic mergers and/or acquisitions. As of June 30, 2011, we had approximately $783,000 of cash and cash equivalents and $6.6 million of investment assets. Our total cash "burn” rate is estimated to be approximately $70,000 per month. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with the consummation of a business combination transaction. We do not have any debt instruments in place that we could use for future borrowings. Thus, if a business combination transaction is not timely consummated, we may be forced to seek additional capital in order to continue our operations. There is no assurance that such additional capital will be available. We could find it necessary to pursue a plan of complete liquidation and dissolution. In that event, we would incur additional costs related to the disposal of our remaining assets, which would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution. 6 ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 