ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Significant factors that could impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation, the following: 3 Table of Contents · Risk of changes in the price and availability of raw materials - The packaging materials and several of the principal ingredients used by the Company are subject to price volatility. Although the Company engages in commodity hedging transactions and seeks to leverage the high volume of its annual purchases, the Company may experience price increases in these raw materials that it may not be able to offset, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, although the Company has historically been able to procure sufficient supplies of raw materials, market conditions could change such that adequate supplies might not be available. · Risk of changes in product performance and competition - The Company competes with other well-established manufacturers of confectionery products. A failure of new or existing products to be favorably received, a failure to retain preferred shelf space at retail or a failure to sufficiently counter aggressive competitive actions could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk of discounting and other competitive actions - Discounting and other competitive actions may make it more difficult for the Company to maintain its operating margins. · Risk of dependence on large customers — The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 23.5% of net product sales in 2008, and other large, national chains are also material to the Company’s sales. The loss of Wal-Mart or one or more other large customers, or a material decrease in purchases by one or more large customers, could result in decreased sales and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk of changes in consumer preferences and tastes - Failure to adequately anticipate and react to changing demographics, consumer trends, consumer health concerns and product preferences could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk of economic conditions on consumer purchases — The Company’s sales are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. Continued volatility in food and energy costs, a sustained global recession, rising unemployment, and continued declines in personal spending could adversely impact the Company’s revenues, profitability and financial condition. · Risk of economic conditions on customers and suppliers - Short and long-term lenders have reportedly become increasingly cautious in providing financing to companies. As a result, our customers and our suppliers could face difficulty in securing debt financing. This could result in reduced liquidity for our customers and our suppliers. If current credit market conditions continue, the Company could experience an increase in bad debt expense resulting in reduced cash flows. 4 Table of Contents · Risk of new governmental laws and regulations - Governmental laws and regulations, including food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, both in and outside the U.S are subject to change over time, which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and ability to compete in domestic or foreign marketplaces. · Risk of labor stoppages - To the extent the Company experiences any material labor stoppages, such disputes or strikes could negatively affect shipments from suppliers or shipments of finished product. · Risk of impairment of reporting units or indefinite-lived assets — The Company has a significant amount of intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks, and has adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” The Company has also adopted SFAS No. 144 with respect to evaluating potential impairment of other long-lived assets. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized but are subject to an impairment evaluation annually or more frequently upon the occurrence of some triggering event, and under SFAS No. 144 other long-lived assets are likewise tested for impairment upon the occurrence of some triggering event. A write-down of any of the Company’s intangible or other indefinite-lived assets could materially and adversely impact its results of operations. · Risk of the cost of energy increasing - Energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher distribution, freight and other operating costs. The Company may not be able to offset these cost increases, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk of a product recall - Issues related to the quality and safety of the Company’s products could result in a voluntary or involuntary large-scale product recall. Negative publicity associated with this type of situation, including a product recall relating to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could negatively impact demand for our products. Costs associated with these potential actions, including a product recall and related litigation or fines, and marketing costs relating to the re-launch of such products or brands, could negatively affect our operating results. · Risk of operational interruptions relating to computer software failures, including the implementation of new enterprise resource planning and supply chain systems - The Company is reliant on computer software programs to operate its business and is currently in the process of implementing new business software systems to improve its operational efficiency. In addition to the underlying risk posed by any software corruption, implementation of these new computer software systems adds further risk, 5 Table of Contents including the potential disruption of supply chain planning and activities relating to sales demand forecasts, materials procurement, production planning, and customer shipments, all of which could negatively impact sales and profits. · Risk of production interruptions — The majority of the Company’s products are manufactured in a single production facility on specialized equipment. In the event of a disaster at a specific plant location it would be difficult to transfer production to other facilities in a timely manner, which could result in loss of market share for the affected products. · Risk related to international operations - To the extent there is political or social unrest, civil war, terrorism or significant economic instability in the countries in which the Company operates, the results of the Company’s business in such countries could be adversely impacted. Currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk related to investments in marketable securities — The Company invests its surplus cash in a diversified portfolio of highly rated marketable securities, generally with maturities of generally up to three years. Changes in the financial markets can affect the carrying value of such instruments, and in 2008 the Company recorded a $5,140,000 pre-tax impairment against an auction rate security which the Company determined had become impaired. The factors identified above are believed to be significant factors, but not necessarily all of the significant factors, that could impact our business. Unpredictable or unknown factors could also have material effects on the Company. Additional significant factors that may affect the Company’s operations, performance and business results include the risks and uncertainties listed from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the risk factors or uncertainties listed herein or listed in any document incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 