ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Significant factors that could impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation, the following: · Changes in the price and availability of raw materials - The packaging materials and several of the principal ingredients used by the Company are subject to price volatility. Although the Company engages in commodity hedging transactions and seeks to leverage the high volume of its annual purchases, the Company may experience price increases in these raw materials that it may not be able to offset, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, although the Company has historically been able to procure sufficient supplies of raw materials, market conditions could change such that adequate supplies might not be available. 3 · Changes in product performance and competition - The Company competes with other well-established manufacturers of confectionery products. A failure of new or existing products to be favorably received, a failure to retain preferred shelf space at retail or a failure to sufficiently counter aggressive competitive actions could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Discounting and other competitive actions - Discounting and other competitive actions may make it more difficult for the Company to maintain its operating margins. · Dependence on customers — The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 22.4% of net product sales in 2007.The loss of Wal-Mart or one or more other large customers, or a material decrease in purchases by one or more large customers, could result in decreased sales and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Changes in consumer preferences and tastes - Failure to adequately anticipate and react to changing demographics, consumer trends, consumer health concerns and product preferences could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Governmental laws and regulations - Governmental laws and regulations, including food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, both in and outside the U.S, could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and ability to compete in domestic or foreign marketplaces. · Labor stoppages - To the extent the Company experiences any material labor stoppages, such disputes or strikes could negatively affect shipments from suppliers or shipments of finished product. · Periodic impairment evaluations — The Company has a significant amount of intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks, and has adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized but are subject to an 4 annual impairment evaluation. A write-down of any of the Company’s intangible assets could materially and adversely impact its results of operations. · An increase in the cost of energy could affect our profitability - Energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher distribution, freight and other operating costs. The Company may not be able to offset these cost increases, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Issues related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall, resulting in harm to the Company’s reputation and negatively impacting our operating results. —Negative publicity associated with these types of concerns, including a product recall relating to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could negatively impact demand for our products. Costs associated with these potential actions, including a product recall and related litigation or fines, and marketing costs relating to the re-launch of such products or brands, could negatively affect our operating results. · Operational interruptions relating to the implementation of new enterprise resource planning and supply chain computer software could be disruptive to the Company’s business. - The Company is currently in the process of implementing new business software systems to improve its operational efficiencies. Nonetheless, implementation of these new computer software systems over the next two years does add risk, including the potential disruption of supply chain planning and activities relating to sales demand forecasts, materials procurement, production planning, and customer shipments, all of which could negatively impact sales and profits. · Production interruptions — The majority of the Company’s products are manufactured in a single production facility on specialized equipment. In the event of a disaster at a specific plant location it would be difficult to transfer production to other facilities in a timely manner, which could result in loss of market share for the affected products. · International operations - While the countries in which the Company operates tend to be politically, socially and economically stable, to the extent there is political or social unrest, civil war, terrorism or significant economic instability, the results of the Company’s business in such countries could be adversely impacted Currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 5 The factors identified above are believed to be significant factors, but not necessarily all of the significant factors, that could impact our business. Unpredictable or unknown factors could also have material effects on the Company. Additional significant factors that may affect the Company’s operations, performance and business results include the risks and uncertainties listed from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the risk factors or uncertainties listed herein or listed in any document incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. ITEM 