ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Significant factors that could impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation, the following: · Risk of changes in the price and availability of raw materials - The principal ingredients used by the Company are subject to price volatility. Although the Company engages in commodity hedging transactions and annual supply agreements as well as leveraging the high volume of its annual purchases, the Company may experience price increases in these ingredients that it may not be able to offset, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, although the Company has historically been able to procure sufficient supplies of its ingredients, market conditions could change such that adequate supplies might not be available or only become available at substantially higher costs. Adverse weather patterns, including the effects of climate change, can significantly affect the cost and availability of these ingredients · Risk of changes in product performance and competition - The Company competes with other well-established manufacturers of confectionery products. A failure of new or existing products to be favorably received, a failure to retain preferred shelf space at retail or a failure to sufficiently counter aggressive competitive actions could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk of discounting and other competitive actions — Discounting and pricing pressure by the Company’s retail customers and other competitive actions may could make it more difficult for the Company to maintain its operating margins. · Risk of dependence on large customers - The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 23.5% of net product sales in 2012, and other large, national chains are also material to the Company’s sales. The loss of Wal-Mart or one or more other large customers, or a material decrease in purchases by one or more large customers, could result in decreased sales and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk of changes in consumer preferences and tastes - Failure to adequately anticipate and react to changing demographics, consumer trends, consumer health concerns and product preferences could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk of economic conditions on consumer purchases - The Company’s sales are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors. Volatility in food and energy costs, rising unemployment, declines in personal spending, and recessionary economic conditions could adversely impact the Company’s revenues, profitability and financial condition. · Risks related to environmental matters - The Company’s operations are not particularly impactful on the environment, but increased government environmental regulation or legislation could adversely impact the Company’s profitability. · Risks relating to participation in the multi-employer pension plan for certain Company union employees - As outlined in Note 7 (page 21) to the consolidated financial statements and discussed in the Management Discussion & Analysis (page 6), the Company participates in a multi-employer pension plan (Plan) which is currently in critical status, the “Red Zone”, as defined. Under terms of the Rehabilitation plan, the Company is to be assessed 5% annual compounded surcharges on its contributions to the Plan until such time as the Plan emerges from critical status. The Company was advised by the Plan that if the Company had withdrawn from the Plan during 2012 its estimated withdrawal liability would have been $37.2 million. Although the Company has not made any decisions regarding withdrawal from the Plan the Company is exploring various options, including withdrawal from the Plan. Should the Company actually withdraw from the Plan at a future date, a withdrawal liability, which could be higher than $37.2 million, would be payable to the Plan. The Company is currently unable to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter and therefore, is unable to determine the effects on its consolidated financial statements, but, the ultimate outcome could be material to its consolidated results of operations in one or more future periods. · Risk of new governmental laws and regulations - Governmental laws and regulations, including those that affect food advertising and marketing, including products for children, income and other taxes and tariffs, and the environment, both in and outside the U.S. are subject to change over time, which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and ability to compete in domestic or foreign marketplaces. · Risk of labor stoppages - To the extent the Company experiences any significant labor stoppages, such disputes or strikes could negatively affect shipments from suppliers or shipments of finished product. 3 Table of Contents · Risk of impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets - In accordance with authoritative guidance, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are subject to an impairment evaluation annually or more frequently upon the occurrence of a triggering event, and other long-lived assets are likewise tested for impairment upon the occurrence of a triggering event. · Risk of the cost of energy increasing - Energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher distribution, freight and other operating costs. The Company may not be able to offset these cost increases, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk of a product recall - Issues related to the quality and safety of the Company’s products could result in a voluntary or involuntary large-scale product recall. Negative publicity associated with this type of situation, including a product recall relating to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could negatively impact demand for our products. Costs associated with these potential actions, including a product recall and related litigation or fines, and marketing costs relating to the re-launch of such products or brands, could negatively affect operating results. · Risk of operational interruptions relating to computer software or hardware failures - The Company is reliant on computer systems to operate its business. Software failure or corruption, including cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, or catastrophic hardware failures or disaster could disrupt supply chain planning and activities relating to sales demand forecasts, materials procurement, production planning, customer shipments, and financial and accounting, all of which could negatively impact sales and profits. · Risk of production interruptions - The majority of the Company’s products are manufactured in a single production facility on specialized equipment. In the event of a disaster at a specific plant location, it would be difficult to transfer production to other facilities or a new location in a timely manner, which could result in loss of market share for the affected products. · Risk related to international operations - To the extent there is political or social unrest, civil war, terrorism or significant economic instability in the countries in which the Company operates, the results of the Company’s business in such countries could be adversely impacted. Currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could also have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. · Risk related to investments in marketable securities and equity method investments - The Company invests its surplus cash in a diversified portfolio of highly rated marketable securities, with maturities of generally up to three years. The Company also holds a 50% interest in two Spanish companies which are accounted for using the equity method. Changes in the financial markets or overall economic conditions, including such conditions in Spain, can affect the carrying value of such instruments and could materially and adversely impact its results of operations. · Disruption to our supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver our finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. Disruption to our manufacturing operations or our supply chain, some of which are discussed above, could result from, but are not limited to natural disasters, pandemic outbreak of disease, weather, fire or explosion, terrorism or other acts of violence, unavailability of ingredients or packaging materials, labor strikes or other labor activities, operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. Although we take precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions, if we are unable, or if it is not financially feasible, to effectively mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such disruptive events, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. · The Company is a controlled company due to the common stock holdings of the Gordon family - The Gordon family’s share ownership represents a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of the Company’s common stock as of December 31, 2012. As a result, the Gordon family has the power to elect the Company’s directors and approve actions requiring the approval of the shareholders of the Company. The factors identified above are believed to be significant factors, but not necessarily all of the significant factors, that could impact our business. Unpredictable or unknown factors could also have material effects on the Company. Additional significant factors that may affect the Company’s operations, performance and business results include the risks and uncertainties listed from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the risk factors or uncertainties listed herein or listed in any document incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 4 Table of Contents 