Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Company Our growth depends on our ability to obtain additional capital and we may not be able to obtain sufficient additional capital to grow our business. Effectuation of our business strategy will require substantial capital expenditures. In order to fund our future growth we will need to obtain additional capital. The amount and timing of our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: •drilling results and costs; •transportation costs; •equipment costs and availability; •marketing expenses; •oil and natural gas prices; •requirements and commitments under existing permits; •staffing levels and competitive conditions; and •any purchases or dispositions of assets. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. Our failure or inability to obtain any required additional financing on favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our growth, cash flow and earnings, including our ability to meet our capital expenditures budgets. Although we retired the facilities with the International Finance Corporation in March 2009, we have outstanding $80.3 million of Convertible Senior Notes due October 2025 and plan to attempt to enter into another credit facility. Given the current state of the credit market, no assurance can be given that we will be able to enter into a new credit facility on acceptable terms; therefore there can be no assurances that we will have the needed additional capital to fund our future growth. In addition, to the extent that we are not able to obtain additional capital by the incurrence of additional debt, we may need to issue additional equity which may be difficult in light of the current equity market. Any such issuance of equity could be materially dilutive to our outstanding equity and equity holders. 22 Table of Contents The terms of any future indebtedness may restrict our ability to grow. If we enter into a new credit facility, our debt to equity ratio may limit our ability to obtain additional indebtedness. Additionally any new credit facility may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness because of financial ratios we must meet. Thus, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to grow our business, effectuate our business strategy and may lose opportunities to acquire interests in oil and natural gas properties or related businesses because of our inability to fund such growth. Our ability to comply with the restrictions and covenants of any future credit facility is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants could result in a default, which could permit the lender to accelerate repayments and foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness. Our operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks. We currently have operations involving the U.S. dollar, Euro, New Turkish Lira, Forint and Romanian Lei. We are subject to fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the Euro, New Turkish Lira, Forint and Romanian Lei respectively. These fluctuations, including the recent fluctuations, may adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisition prospects may be difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our operations. On a consistent basis, we evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on terms we consider favorable. In particular, we pursue acquisitions of businesses or interests that will complement and allow us to expand our exploration activities; however, currently, we have no binding commitments related to any acquisitions. The successful acquisition of interests in oil and natural gas properties requires an assessment of: •recoverable reserves; •exploration potential; •future oil and natural gas prices; •operating costs; •potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors; and •permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations. In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting conclusions are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain and such an assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every platform or well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. As a result, acquired properties may prove to be worth less than we pay for them. Future acquisitions could pose numerous additional risks to our operations and financial results, including: •problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies; •unanticipated costs; •diversion of resources and management attention from our core business; •entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and 23 Table of Contents •potential loss of key employees, particularly those of any acquired organization. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas exploration, development, production, leasing, and acquisition activities. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies as well as from both major and other independent oil and natural gas companies in each of the following areas: •seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; •marketing our oil and natural gas production; •integrating new technologies; and •seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate our properties. Many of our competitors have financial, technological and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil and natural gas companies. These companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Further, these companies may enjoy technological advantages and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Our business exposes us to liability and extensive regulation on environmental matters. Our operations are subject to foreign laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations not only expose us to liability for our own negligence, but may also expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for our actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. We may incur significant costs as a result of environmental accidents, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures, or discharges of hazardous materials into the environment, including clean-up costs and fines or penalties. Additionally, we may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may be forced to pay fines or penalties if we do not comply. All of our operations are conducted in Turkey, Hungary and France. Therefore, we are subject to political and economic risks and other uncertainties. We have international operations and are subject to the following foreign issues and uncertainties that can affect our operations adversely: •the risk of expropriation, nationalization, war, revolution, border disputes, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, and import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; •taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; •exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over international operations; •laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; 24 Table of Contents •the possibility of being subjected to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and •the possibility of restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital from foreign countries. Terrorist activities may adversely affect our business. Terrorist activities, including events similar to those of September 11, 2001, or armed conflict involving the United States or any other country in which we hold interests, may adversely affect our business activities and financial condition. If events of this nature occur and persist, the resulting political and social instability could adversely affect prevailing oil and natural gas prices and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, oil and natural gas production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs associated with insurance and other security measures may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. We may not be able to renew our permits or obtain new ones which could reduce our proved reserves. We do not hold title to properties in Turkey, Hungary and France, but have exploration and exploitation permits granted by these countries' respective governments. Approximately 62% of our proved reserves are estimated to be recovered after the expiration of the applicable permit, as of December 31, 2008. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of these permits when they expire, convert exploration permits into exploitation permits or obtain additional permits in the future. If we cannot renew some or all of these permits when they expire or convert exploration permits into exploitation permits, we will not be able to include the proved reserves associated with the permit. Since we do not hold title to our foreign properties but rather hold exploitation and exploration permits granted to us by the applicable foreign governments, the Securities and Exchange Commission may require that a certain portion of proved reserves associated with these permits not be included in our proved reserves. Rather than holding title to our foreign properties, we hold exploitation and exploration permits that have been granted to us for a specific time period by the applicable foreign governments. We must apply to have these permits renewed and extended in order to continue our exploration and development rights. Although we have always reported our proved reserves assuming that the permits will be extended in due course, the Securities and Exchange Commission may take the view that our ability to renew and extend our permits past their current expiration dates is not sufficiently certain such that we should not include the reserves that may be produced post expiration in our total proved reserves. Although we have previously been able to provide support to the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the likelihood of extension, no assurance can be given that the Securities and Exchange Commission will allow us to continue to include these additional reserves in our proved reserves. Any future hedging activities may require us to make significant payments that are not offset by sales of production and may prevent us from benefiting from increases in oil or natural gas prices. Although we are not currently a party to a hedging transaction, occasionally we may reduce our exposure to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices by hedging a portion of our production. In a typical hedge transaction, we will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we will be required to pay the counterparty this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged. In such case, we will be required to pay the difference regardless of whether we have sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floating price exceeds the fixed price could require 25 Table of Contents us to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are not offset by sales of production. Hedging also could prevent us from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil or natural gas prices above the fixed amount specified in the hedge. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our stock price. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing our internal controls and management's assessment. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could be deemed in violation of any lending covenants, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our stock could decrease. During the evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures for the year ended December 31, 2008, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in reaching a reasonable level of assurance of achieving management's desired controls and procedures objectives in our internal control over financial reporting. There is no guarantee that we will be able to conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in future periods. Risks Related To Our Industry A decline in oil and natural gas prices will have an adverse impact on our operations. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. In recent years, oil and natural gas prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration, development and production, have been extremely volatile. Any significant or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could impair access to future sources of capital. Volatility in the oil and natural gas industry results from numerous factors, over which we have no control, including: •the level of oil and natural gas prices, expectations about future oil and natural gas prices and the ability of international cartels to set and maintain production levels and prices; •the cost of exploring for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas; •the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; •domestic and foreign governmental regulation; •the level and price of foreign oil and natural gas transportation; •available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity; •weather conditions; •international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; •the level of consumer demand; •the price and the availability of alternative fuels; •the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and •the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise capital. 26 Table of Contents Significant declines in oil and natural gas prices, including the recent decline may: •impair our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; •cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; •reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; and •reduce the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. We expect oil and natural gas prices, as well as the oil and natural gas industry generally, to continue to be volatile. Continued financial success depends on our ability to replace our reserves in the future. Our future success as an oil and natural gas producer depends upon our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are profitable. Oil and natural gas are depleting assets, and production from oil and natural gas from properties declines as reserves are depleted with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. If we are unable to conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves generally will decline as the reserves are produced, and our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. Replacing our reserves through exploration or development activities or acquisitions will require significant capital which may not be available to us. We face numerous risks in finding commercially productive oil and natural gas reservoirs. Our drilling will involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. We may incur significant expenditures for the identification and acquisition of properties and for the drilling and completion of wells. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. In addition, any use by us of 3D seismic and other advanced technology to explore for oil and natural gas requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling methodologies. While we use advanced technology in our operations, this technology does not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or economically producible. In addition, as a "successful efforts" company, we account for unsuccessful exploration efforts, i.e., the drilling of "dry holes," as an expense of operations which impacts our earnings. Significant expensed exploration charges in any period would materially adversely affect our earnings for that period and could cause our earnings to be volatile from period to period. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks. Our operations are subject to the risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, including the risks of: •fire, explosions and blowouts; •pipe failure; •abnormally pressured formations; and •environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination). 27 Table of Contents These events may result in substantial losses to us from: •injury or loss of life; •severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; •pollution or other environmental damage; •clean-up responsibilities; •regulatory investigation; •penalties and suspension of operations; and •attorney's fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As is customary in our industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. We cannot assure investors that our insurance will be adequate to cover these losses or liabilities. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We carry well control insurance for our drilling operations. Our coverage includes blowout protection and liability protection on domestic and international wells. The producing wells in which we have an interest occasionally experience reduced or terminated production. These curtailments can result from mechanical failures, contract terms, pipeline and processing plant interruptions, market conditions and weather conditions. These curtailments can last from a few days to many months. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this prospectus. In order to prepare these estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions relating to matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and pre-tax net present value of reserves shown in this prospectus. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Investors should not assume that the pre-tax net present value of our proved reserves referred to in this Form 10-K is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the pre-tax net present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices, costs, and the volume of produced reserves may differ materially from those used in the pre-tax net present value estimate. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our stock's public trading price has been volatile, which may depress the trading price of our common stock. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Overall market conditions, in addition to other risks and uncertainties described in this "Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this prospectus, has caused the market price of our common stock to fall. We participate in a price sensitive industry, which often results in significant volatility in the market price of common stock irrespective of company performance. As a result, our high and low closing stock prices for the twelve months ended March 10, 2009 were $10.49 and $1.96, respectively. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by conditions in the energy and oil and natural gas industries or conditions in the financial markets generally. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "TRGL." However, daily trading volumes for our common stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other publicly traded securities. It may be difficult for investors to sell their shares of common stock in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of our common stock may, therefore, be volatile. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, among other things: •current events affecting the political, economic and social situation in the United States and other countries where we operate; •trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate; •litigation involving or affecting us; •changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; •acquisitions and financings by us or our competitors; •quarterly variations in operating results; •volatility in exchange rates between the US dollar and the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate; •the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may consider to be comparable; and •purchases or sales of blocks of our securities. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. These factors, among others, could significantly depress the price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to continue our policy of retaining earnings to finance the growth of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future credit facility may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. 29 Table of Contents We may issue equity securities in the future which may depress the trading price of our common stock and may dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. Future sales or issuances of common stock or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock may depress the trading price of our common stock. We may not have the ability to issue new common stock due to the decline in the equity market and our share price. Any issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the notes. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options, or upon conversion of debentures, or for other reasons. As of March 10, 2009, there were: •248,370 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, at a weighted average exercise price of $6.77 per share, of which options to purchase 148,870 shares were exercisable; •98,760 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants, at a weighted average exercise price of $19.82 per share, all of which were exercisable; •1,875,192 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes; and •1,053,397 shares of our common stock available for future grant under our equity incentive plan. Our leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $110.3 million and represented approximately 2.10 of our total capitalization as of that date. After giving effect to the repayment of the facility to the International Finance Corporation, on March 3, 2009, our debt to equity ratio would be 1.53 to 1. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, because: •it could affect our ability to satisfy our payment obligations under our indebtedness; •a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; •it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; •it may impair our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged; •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and •it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Provisions in our charter documents, the indenture for the Convertible Senior Notes and Delaware law could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to holders of our common stock. If a "change in control" (as defined in the indenture for the Convertible Senior Notes) occurs, holders of the Convertible Senior Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the event of certain "fundamental changes" (as defined in the indenture for the Convertible Senior Notes), we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to notes surrendered for conversion upon the fundamental change. In addition, the indenture for the Convertible Senior Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the 30 Table of Contents surviving entity assumes our obligations under the notes. These and other provisions, including the provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law, could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to holders of our common stock or the notes. Certain provisions of our charter documents may adversely impact our stockholders. Our charter documents provide our board of directors the right to issue preferred stock upon such terms and conditions as it deems to be in our best interests. The terms of such preferred stock may adversely impact the dividend and liquidation rights of the common stockholders without the approval of the common stockholders. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 