Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company The results and impact of pending French governmental studies relating to the development of shale oil in France are uncertain. Future restrictions on shale oil in France would have a material adverse effect on our business. On February 4, 2011, France’s Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Energy announced its intention to conduct a study on the economic, social and environmental stakes relating to the development of shale gas and shale oil in France (the “France Shale Study”). On February 10, 2011, Toreador and Hess met with representatives of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Energy to discuss the impact the France Shale Study might have on its unconventional oil exploration, particularly the proof of concept program. Following such discussion, Toreador concluded that they will voluntarily delay such drilling pending the results of the France Shale Study and any interim or subsequent political developments. In the interim, Toreador intends to cooperate with the French government i n conducting the France Shale Study, including by providing scientific data and practical experiences regarding oil development, hosting delegations to observe oil operations in the Paris Basin and initiating baseline environmental studies with third-party environmental experts that would be available to the French government. On March 2, 2011 an additional study on the impact of shale gas and shale oil was launched by the French National Assembly (the “National Assembly Study”), the conclusions of which are expected to be published in June 2011 (at the same time as the final report relating to the France Shale Study). On March 11, 2011, the Prime Minister of France announced that the moratorium on unconventional exploration has been extended to exploration permits and works authorizations until mid-June 2011 (originally mid-April), i.e. when the conclusions of the studies on the environmental impact of drilling techniques will have been rendered. The Company does not currently know the impact of such decision on its proof of concept program. The Company is currently evaluating its drilling program in light of these developments and will continue to monitor further developments and adjust its plans as necessary. We currently rely on funds from our strategic partner for execution of our proof of concept program. Pursuant to the Hess Investment Agreement, in order for Hess to retain its working interests in the relevant exploration permits in connection with our proof of concept program, Hess is required to invest up to $120 million in fulfillment of a two-phase work program. If Hess does not spend $120 million in fulfillment of the work program and/or elects not to proceed to the second phase of the work program, Toreador would be entitled to receive back from Hess the portion of its working interest in each permit Toreador transferred to Hess in connection with the execution of the Hess Investment Agreement; however, Toreador would then be required to expend the capital required to fund such work program (or any other work program). If Hess does spend $120 million in fulfillment of the wo rk program, Toreador would be required to fund its portion of subsequent exploration, appraisal and development activities in accordance with individual participation agreements governing the joint operations on each permit. As a result, Toreador may require additional capital to execute the proof of concept program or fund such subsequent work, as applicable, which it may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, if at all. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We may require additional capital in 2011 and beyond to, among other things, execute our business plan, which would entail substantial capital expenditures. Under French law, each of our exploration permits and exploitation concessions require that we commit to expenditures of a certain amount over the period of the applicable permit or concession. Though we consider these amounts discretionary, such expenditures would be required to renew such permits. We currently have a limited amount of oil production in France, and the revenues from our current production are not expected to be sufficient to cover all of the costs that would be necessary to explore and develop all our existing permits. Accordingly, we will continue to rely, to the extent available, on existing working capital and additional funds obtained from external sources, including potential strategic partners, to cover these costs. If these resources are unavailable, we may be required to curtail our drilling, development and other activities. The amount and timing of our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: ● drilling results and costs; 19 ● transportation costs; ● equipment costs and availability; ● marketing expenses; ● oil prices; ● requirements and commitments under existing permits and concessions; ● staffing levels and competitive conditions; ● any purchases or dispositions of assets; and ● other factors affecting our business at any given time. To the extent that our existing capital and borrowing capabilities are insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we will need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings, including offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock or rights to acquire our common stock, or revise our business plan and/or curtail our growth. Any equity or debt financing or additional borrowings, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, the New Convertible Senior Notes limit our ability to incur or increase our debt based on our proved plus probable reserves. Under the terms of the New Convertible Senior Notes, we may not maintain total consolidated net debt, or incur debt, in excess of the product of (x) $7.00 and (y) the number of bar rels of our proved plus probable reserves, except for nonrecourse financing for projects or acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships and certain other permitted debt. Any securities we issue in future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms if and when needed, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. Our failure or inability to obtain any required additional financing on favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our growth, cash flow and earnings, including our ability to meet our capital expenditures budget. In addition, if we issue additional equity securities, including upon conversion of our existing or any future convertible or similar securities, the value of currently outstanding common stock may be diluted and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected. See " — Risks Related to Our Common Stock — We may issue equity securities that may depress the trading price of our common stock and may dilute the interests of our existing stockholders." We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing exploration permits or exploitation concessions or obtain new ones, which could reduce our proved reserves. We do not hold title to our properties in France but hold exploration permits and exploitation concessions granted by the French government. Under French law, each exploration permit requires us to commit expenditures of a certain amount of exploration costs and is subject to renewal after the initial term of up to five years. Under French law, each exploitation concession requires a similar commitment of expenditure and is subject to renewal after an initial term of up to 50 years. 20 We currently hold three exploitation concessions covering two producing oil areas in the Paris Basin — the Neocomian Complex (Chateaurenard and St. Firmin Des Bois) and Charmottes fields (producing from the Dogger and Trias horizon). The production from these oil fields currently represents substantially all of our sales and other operating revenue. We obtained a renewal of the Chateaurenard and St. Firmin Des Bois concessions in February 2011, extending the expiry date of each to January 1, 2036 and we filed a renewal application for the Charmottes fields in February 2011. We have also filed renewal applications for exploration permits that expired in 2010 or 2011 (Auferville, Rigny le Ferron and Joigny) or will expire later in 2 011 (Mairy). These renewal applications are currently pending with the French government. Although no renewal decision has been issued before the expiry of the Aufferville, Rigny le Ferron and Joigny permits, under current French Mining Code, such permits can still be operated until an express decision of the minister is issued with respect to their renewal. However, there is a doubt as to whether such exploration will still be possible after 15 months following the date of filing of the renewal application since the silence kept by the minister for more than 15 months following the date of filing of the renewal application may be construed as an implicit refusal to grant the renewal of an exploration permit. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of these permits or concessions when they expire, convert exploration permits into exploitation concessions or obtain additional permits or concessions in the future. If we do not satisfy the French government that we have financial and technical capacities necessary to operate under such permits or concessions, such permits or concessions may be withdrawn and/or not renewed. If we cannot renew some or all of these permits or concessions when they expire or convert exploration permits into exploitation concessions, we will not be able to include the proved reserves associated with the permit or concession and we will be unable to engage in production to recover reserves, which production currently repre sents substantially all of our revenue. Any such negative developments with respect to our permits would have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Our indebtedness and near-term debt obligations could materially adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to finance capital expenditures and future acquisitions and prevent us from executing our business plan. On December 31, 2010, we had approximately $31.6 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our New Convertible Senior Notes recorded at a fair value of $34.4 million. Our level of indebtedness has, or could have, important consequences to investors, because: ● a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; ● it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes; ● it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and ● we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage and make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. In addition, the terms of our New Convertible Senior Notes restrict, and the terms of any future indebtedness, including any future credit facility, may restrict, our ability to incur additional indebtedness because of debt or financial covenants we are, or may be, required to meet. Under the terms of the New Convertible Senior Notes, we may not maintain total consolidated net debt, or incur debt, in excess of the product of (x) $7.00 and (y) the number of barrels of our proved plus probable reserves, except for nonrecourse financing for projects or acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships and certain other permitted debt. Thus, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to grow our business or implement our business strategy and may lose oppo rtunities to acquire interests in oil properties or related businesses because of our inability to fund such growth. Our ability to comply with restrictions and covenants, including those in our New Convertible Senior Notes or in any future credit facility, is uncertain and will be affected by the level of our proved plus probable reserves, the levels of cash flow from our operations, and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants could result in a default, which could permit the lender to accelerate repayments and foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness. 21 We have incurred net losses in recent years, and there can be no assurance we will be profitable in the future. Our future financial results are uncertain. We incurred net losses of approximately $9.5 million, $25.4 million and $108.6 million in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our strategy includes conducting efficient operations and maintaining an optimal capital structure; however, there can be no assurance that our strategy will be effective or that we will be profitable in the future. Our financial success depends on our ability to replace our reserves in the future. Our future success as an oil producer depends upon our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil reserves that are profitable. Oil reserves are depleting assets, and production of oil from properties declines as reserves are depleted with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. If we are unable to conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves generally will decline as the reserves are produced, and our level of production, revenues and cash flows will be adversely affected. Replacing our reserves through exploration or development activities or acquisitions will require significant capital, which may not be available to us. This risk may be compounded by the fact that as of December 31, 2010, 6.7% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as undeveloped, which, by their nature, are less certain and will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Since we do not hold title to our properties but rather hold exploration permits and exploitation concessions granted to us by the French government, the SEC may require that a portion of reported proved reserves associated with these permits not be included in our proved reserves. Rather than holding title to our properties, we hold exploration permits and exploitation concessions that have been granted to us by the French government for a specific time period. We must apply to have these permits renewed and extended in order to continue our exploration and development rights. Although we have historically reported our proved reserves assuming that the permits will be extended in due course, the SEC may take the view that our ability to renew and extend our permits past their current expiration dates is not sufficiently certain for us to include the reserves that may be produced post-expiration in our total proved reserves. Although we have previously been able to provide support to the SEC regarding the likelihood of extension, no assura nce can be given that the SEC will allow us to continue to include these additional reserves in our proved reserves. The loss of the current single purchaser of our oil production could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Total accounted for all of our revenues from oil production in France. Our contract with Total was signed in 1996 (then with Elf Antar) and automatically renews for one-year periods unless notice of termination is given at least six months in advance. If Total determines not to renew this contract, ceases purchasing our oil on terms that are favorable to us or fails to pay us and we are unable to contract with another purchaser, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. This customer concentration may also increase our overall exposure to credit risk. Hedging activities may require us to make significant payments that are not offset by sales of production and may prevent us from benefiting from increases in oil prices. We currently, and may in the future, enter into various hedging transactions for a portion of our production in an attempt to reduce our exposure to the volatility of oil prices. In a typical hedge transaction, we will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we will be required to pay the counterparty this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged. In such case, we will be required to pay the difference regardless of whether we have sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floa ting price exceeds the fixed price could require us to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are not offset by sales of production. Hedging also could prevent us from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil prices above the fixed amount specified in the hedge. 22 We depend on our senior management team and other key personnel. Accordingly, the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and other key personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we can give no assurance that either of these individuals will remain with us. The loss of the services of either of these individuals or other employees with critical skills needed to operate our business could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations and future growth. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. It may not be possible to serve process on our directors and officers or enforce judgments against them or us. Many of our directors and executive officers live outside of the United States. Most of the assets of certain of our directors and executive officers and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons in the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against them based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. Our operations are in France and we have previously operated in other international jurisdictions and we are subject to political, economic and legal risks and other uncertainties. Our operations are in France and we have previously operated in other international jurisdictions, including through joint venture arrangements with parties in various international jurisdictions. We are, and have been, subject to the following risks and uncertainties that can affect our international operations adversely: ● the risk of expropriation, nationalization, war, revolution, border disputes, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, and import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; ● taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; ● exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of non-U.S. government sovereignty over international operations; ● laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; ● the possibility of being subjected to the exclusive jurisdiction of non-U.S. courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and ● the possibility of restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital from foreign countries. Further, our non-U.S. operations and international business relationships are subject to laws and regulations that may restrict activities involving restricted countries, organizations, entities and persons that have been identified as unlawful actors or that are subject to U.S. economic sanctions. If we are not in compliance with any such applicable laws and regulations or U.S. economic sanctions, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. 23 All of our revenues are currently attributable to our properties in the Paris Basin in France. Any disruption in production, development or our ability to produce and sell oil in France would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or reduce future revenues. All of our sales revenues are currently attributable to our properties in the Paris Basin in France. We depend on third parties in France for the transportation and refining of our oil production. Any disruption in production, development or our ability to produce and sell oil in France would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or reduce future revenues. If production of oil in the Paris Basin were disrupted or curtailed, or in the case of labor or other disruptions affecting French refineries, transportation or other infrastructure, our cash flows and revenues would be significantly reduced. Our operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks. We currently have operations involving the U.S. dollar and Euro, and we are subject to fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the Euro. While our oil sales are calculated on a U.S. dollar basis, our expenditures are in Euro and we are exposed to the risk that the values of our French assets will decrease and that the amounts of our French liabilities will increase. These currency fluctuations, including the recent fluctuations, may adversely affect our results of operations. We do not currently hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our stock price We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing our internal controls and management's assessment. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and prevent fraud and other errors in our reporting and recordkeeping. If, as a result of deficiencies in our financial or other internal controls, including significant deficiencies, we have not or cannot provide reliable financial reports or internal recordkeeping or compliance procedures, our business decision or compliance process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, we may be subject to legal penalties or other claims, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our stock could decrease. For a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting, see Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures." In connection with the sales of our assets in Turkey, we granted certain significant indemnities to the purchasers of those assets. In 2005, two separate incidents occurred offshore Turkey in the Black Sea, which resulted in the sinking of the Fallen Structures, as defined below, and the loss of three natural gas wells. We have not been requested, or ordered by any governmental or regulatory body, to remove the Fallen Structures. Therefore, we believe it is unlikely that we will receive such a request or order, and no liability has been recorded. In connection with the 2009 sales of our assets in Turkey we agreed to indemnify each purchaser against and in respect of any claims, liabilities and losses arising from the Fallen Structures. We have also indemnified a third-party vendor for any claims made related to these incidents. We are unable to estimate the potential liability associated wit h the Fallen Structures. We have also granted certain other indemnities to the purchasers of our assets in Turkey and to the purchaser of our assets in Hungary in connection with the 2009 sales. Though certain of these indemnities are subject to limitations, including limitations on the time period during which claims may be asserted and the amounts for which we are liable, there can be no assurance that we will not incur future liabilities to the purchasers in connection with these transactions or that the amount of such liabilities will not be material or will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 24 We face certain litigation risks, and unfavorable results of legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on us. We are party to certain lawsuits. Regardless of the merits of any claim, litigation can be lengthy, time-consuming, expensive, and disruptive to normal business operations and may divert management's time and resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our cash flow. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Should we fail to prevail in these matters, or should any of these matters be resolved against us, we may be faced with significant monetary damages, which also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our cash flow. Acquisition prospects may be difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our operations. We continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, intend to pursue acquisition opportunities on terms we consider favorable. In particular, we consider acquisitions of businesses or interests that will complement and allow us to expand our exploration activities; however, currently, we have no binding commitments related to any acquisitions. Future acquisitions could pose numerous additional risks to our operations and financial results, including: ● problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies; ● unanticipated costs; ● diversion of resources and management attention from our core business; ● entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and ● potential loss of key employees, particularly those of any acquired organization. Risks Related to Our Industry A decline in oil prices will have an adverse impact on our operations, and oil prices have been extremely volatile in recent years. Our future revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for oil. In recent years, oil prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration, development and production, have been extremely volatile. Any significant or extended decline in oil prices will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could impair access to future sources of capital. Lower prices may make it uneconomical for us to increase or even continue current production levels of oil. Volatility in the oil industry results from numerous factors, over which we have no control, including: ● the level of oil prices, expectations about future oil prices and the ability of international cartels to set and maintain production levels and prices; ● the cost of exploring for, producing and transporting oil; ● the domestic and foreign supply and demand of oil; ● domestic and foreign governmental regulation; ● the level and price of foreign oil transportation; ● available pipeline and other oil transportation capacity; ● weather and other natural conditions; ● international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions, particularly in oil-producing regions; 25 ● the level of consumer demand; ● the price and availability of alternative fuels; ● the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and ● the ability of oil companies to raise capital. Significant declines in oil prices may: ● impair our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; ● reduce the amount of oil we can produce economically; ● cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; ● reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; ● reduce the carrying value of our oil properties; and ● limit our access to sources of capital. Oil prices rose to unprecedented levels during 2008. In September 2008, with the onset of the deterioration of the credit and equity markets, oil prices declined by more than 70% by the end of 2008. Oil prices recovered slowly throughout 2009 and 2010 and have recently now increased significantly in connection with the recent political instability in the Middle East. Such volatile oil prices caused us to remain cautious in our capital expenditure program for 2010 and continue to influence how we will operate on a go-forward basis. Our internally generated cash flow and cash on hand historically have not been sufficient to fund all of our expenditures, and we have in the past relied on the sales of non-core assets to provide us with additional capital. Though average oil prices increased by app roximately 30% from the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 to twelve months ended December 31, 2010, oil prices are, and we expect will continue to be, volatile. The results of our operations are highly dependent upon the prices received from our oil production, which are dependent on numerous factors beyond our control. Accordingly, significant changes to oil prices are likely to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operation, cash flows and revenue. Competition in the oil industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil exploration, development, production, and acquisition activities. The oil industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies as well as from both major and other independent oil companies in each of the following areas: ● seeking to acquire desirable exploration permits or exploitation concessions; ● marketing our oil production; ● integrating new technologies; and ● seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate our acreage. 26 Many of our competitors have financial, technological and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil companies. These companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil acreage and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of permits or concessions than our financial or human resources permit. Further, these companies may enjoy technological advantages over us and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil acreage and to acquire additional acreage in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable acreag e and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, insurance, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there could be a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, insurance, qualified personnel or oil field services. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wages of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. When oil prices are high, the demand for oilfield services rises and the cost of these services increases. We are subject to complex laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations, including the French Mining Code. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, concessions approvals and certificates from various governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For example, France’s Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Energy announced in February 2011 their intention to conduct a study on the economic, social and en vironmental stakes relating to the development of shale oil in France. A preliminary report is expected mid-April 2011 and a final report by the end of June 2011. We do not know what impact this study might have on our unconventional oil exploration. We are monitoring developments and assisting the French government in this study by providing technical and scientific information on the Paris Basin shale oil resource. We may be unable to obtain all necessary permits, concessions approvals and certificates, or renewals thereof, for proposed projects. Alternatively, we may have to incur substantial expenditures to obtain, maintain or renew authorizations to conduct existing projects. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or public opposition, we may suffer expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. All such costs may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Our business exposes us to liability and extensive environmental regulation. Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations not only expose us to liability for our own negligence, but also may expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for our actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. We may incur significant costs as a result of environmental accidents, such as oil spills, ruptures, or discharges of hazardous materials into the environment, including clean-up costs and fines or penalties. Additionally, we may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may be forced to pay fines or penalties if we do not comply. For example, in 2005, two separate incidents occurred offshore Turkey in the Black Sea, which resulted in the sinking of two caissons, or the Fallen Structures, and the loss of three natural gas wells. We have not been requested or ordered by any governmental or regulatory body to remove the Fallen Structures. Therefore, we believe that the likelihood of receiving such a request or order is remote, and no liability has been recorded. In connection with the 2009 sales of our assets in Turkey, we agreed to indemnify each purchaser against and in respect of any claims, liabilities and losses arising from the Fallen Structures. We have also indemnified a third-party vendor for any claims made related to these incidents. See " — Risks Related to Our Compan y — In connection with the recent sales of our assets in Turkey, we granted certain significant indemnities to the purchasers of those assets." 27 In addition, future climate change regulation, a subject of discussion in many jurisdictions currently, could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect the price or market demand for the oil that we produce. Terrorist activities may adversely affect our business. Terrorist activities, including events similar to those of September 11, 2001, or armed conflict involving the United States or France in which we may hold interests, may adversely affect our business activities and financial condition. If events of this nature occur and persist, the resulting political and social instability could adversely affect prevailing oil prices and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, oil production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs associated with insurance and other security measures may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. We face numerous risks in finding commercially productive oil reservoirs, including delays in our drilling operations as a result of factors that are beyond our control and that may not be covered by insurance. Our drilling will involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil reservoirs will be encountered. We may incur significant expenditures for the identification and acquisition of properties and for the drilling and completion of wells. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: ● unexpected drilling conditions; ● fire, explosions and blowouts; ● pressure or irregularities in formations; ● environmental accidents such as oil spills, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination); ● equipment failures or accidents; ● weather conditions; and ● shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations or cause substantial losses, including: ● injury or loss of life; ● severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; ● pollution or other environmental damage; ● clean-up responsibilities; ● regulatory investigation; ● penalties and suspension of operations; and ● attorneys' fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. 28 As is customary in our industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. We cannot assure investors that our insurance will be adequate to cover these losses or liabilities. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We carry well control insurance for our drilling operations. Our coverage includes blowout protection and liability protection on our wells. The producing wells in which we have an interest occasionally experience reduced or terminated production. These curtailments can result from mechanical failures, contract terms, pipeline and processing plant interruptions, market conditions and weather conditions. These curtailments can last from a few days to many months and may significantly reduce our revenues. In addition, any use by us of 3D seismic and other advanced technology to explore for oil requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling methodologies. While we use advanced technology in our operations, this technology does not allow us to know conclusively, prior to drilling a well, that oil is present or economically producible. In addition, as a "successful efforts" company, we account for unsuccessful exploration efforts, i.e., the drilling of "dry holes," as an expense of operations that impacts our earnings. Significant expensed exploration charges in any period would materially adversely affect our earnings for that period and could cause our earnings to be volatile from period to period. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. The process of estimating oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves. In order to prepare these estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions relating to matters such as oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and pre-tax net present value of reserves incorporated by reference in this prospectus supplement. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil reserves. You should not assume that the pre-tax net present value of our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil reserves. In accordance with the revised SEC requirements, we base the pre-tax net present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves on 12-month average prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices, costs, and the volume of produced reserves may differ materially from those used in the pre-tax net present value estimate and may be affected by factors such as: ● supply of and demand for oil; ● actual prices we receive for oil; ● our actual operating costs; ● the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; ● the amount and timing of actual production; and ● changes in governmental regulations or taxation. 29 The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of our properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flow, which is required by the SEC, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil industry in general. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock's public trading price has been volatile, which may depress the trading price of our common stock. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. We operate in a price-sensitive industry, and there is often significant volatility in the market price of common stock irrespective of company performance. As a result, our high and low intra-day stock prices for 2010 were $16.20 and $5.35, respectively. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by conditions in the energy and oil industries or conditions in the financial markets generally. Our common stock is quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "TRGL" and as of December 17, 2010 under the symbol "TOR" on the Professional Segment of NYSE Euronext in Paris. However, daily trading volumes for our common stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other publicly traded securities. It may be difficult for investors to sell their shares of common stock in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of our common stock may, therefore, be volatile. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, among other things: ● current events affecting the political, economic and social situation in the United States and France; ● trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate; ● changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; ● acquisitions and financings by us or our competitors; ● quarterly variations in operating results; ● litigation or governmental action involving or affecting us; ● volatility in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro; ● the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may consider to be comparable; and ● purchases or sales of blocks of our securities. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. These factors, among others, could significantly depress the price of our common stock. 30 We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to continue our policy of retaining earnings to finance the growth of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future credit facility may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. We may issue equity securities, including upon conversion of existing securities, that may depress the trading price of our common stock and may dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. Sales or issuances of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock may depress the trading price of our common stock. We may not have the ability to issue new common stock or securities convertible into common stock due to the decline in the equity market and our share price. Any issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of our New Convertible Senior Notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the New Convertible Senior Notes. The terms of the New Convertible Senior Notes provide that the conversion rate be adjusted for certain securities offerings conducted prior to October 1, 2010 if 120% of the offering price in such offering is less than the then current conversion price. Thus, because we sold shares in the February 2010 offering at $8.50 per share, the conversion price of the New Convertible Senior Notes was adjusted to approximately $10.20 per share, representing 120% of the public offering pr ice of the offering. Such adjustment will result in further dilution to our stockholders, if and when such notes are converted. The conversion price of the New Convertible Senior Notes will not be further adjusted under such provision in the indenture because the proceeds from the offering were in excess of $20 million. Under the terms of the indenture, we will not be required to issue shares of common stock upon conversion of the aggregate principal amount of the New Convertible Senior Notes that would exceed 19.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock or otherwise require shareholder approval. We may issue common stock or securities convertible into our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or the conversion of debentures, or for other reasons. We have an effective shelf registration from which additional shares of our common stock and other securities can be issued. We may not be able to sell shares of our common stock or other securities at a price per share that is equal to or greater than the price per share paid by our current shareholders. If the price per share at which we sell additional shares of our common stock or related securities in future transactions is less than the price per share at which we have sold shares in the past, shareholders will suffer a dilution in their investment. Provisions in the indenture for the New Convertible Senior Notes and our charter and Delaware law could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to holders of our common stock. If a "change in control" (as defined in the indenture for the New Convertible Senior Notes) occurs, holders of notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the event of certain "fundamental changes" (as defined in the indenture for the New Convertible Senior Notes), we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to the notes surrendered for conversion upon the fundamental change. In addition, the indenture for the New Convertible Senior Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the notes. Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to set the terms of preferred stock, and our bylaws limit stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders. In addition, Delaware law contains provisions that impose restrictions on business combinations with interested parties. Because of these provisions of our charter and bylaws and of Delaware law, persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals may be more likely to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. As a result, these provisions may make it more difficult for our stockholders to benefit from transactions that are opposed by an incumbent Board of Directors. 31 The personal liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duty of care is limited by the Delaware General Corporation Law and by our certificate of incorporation. The Delaware General Corporation Law allows corporations to limit available relief for the breach of directors' duty of care to equitable remedies such as injunction or rescission. Our certificate of incorporation limits the liability of our directors to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Specifically, our directors will not be personally liable for monetary damages for any breach of their fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability: ● for any breach of their duty of loyalty to the company or our stockholders; ● for acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; ● under provisions relating to unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; and ● for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. This limitation may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors, and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors for breach of their duty of care, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited our stockholders. We have the ability to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which, if issued, could affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors, subject to the rules of The NASDAQ Global Market, to issue up to four million shares of preferred stock and to set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking stockholder approval. The terms of such preferred stock may adversely impact the dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 