Item 1A. Risk Factors Our growth depends on our ability to obtain additional capital. Effectuation of our business strategy will require substantial capital expenditures. In order to fund our future growth, we will need to obtain additional capital. The amount and timing of our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: • drilling results and costs; • transportation costs; • equipment costs and availability; • marketing expenses; • oil and natural gas prices; • requirements and commitments under existing permits; • staffing levels and competitive conditions; and • any purchases or dispositions of assets. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. Our failure or inability to obtain any required additional financing on favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our growth, cash flow and earnings, including our ability to meet our capital expenditures budget. We retired our senior secured credit facilities in January 2004. Although we have a $25 million reserve-based credit facility secured by our U.S. assets and a $15 million reserve-based credit facility secured by our French assets, our ability to borrow under these facilities is limited because of our borrowing base restrictions. At December 31, 2005, there was $5 million outstanding under the $15 million facility. At December 31, 2005, there were no amounts outstanding under the $25 million facility. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $3 million in additional borrowings was available under the $15 million facility. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $3.3 million in additional borrowings was available under the $25 million facility. No assurance can be given that we will have the needed additional capital to fund our growth under these facilities or from existing operations. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to grow. Our $15 million facility restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness because of financial ratios which we must meet. In addition, our $25 million facility restricts the ability of the borrowers, two of our domestic subsidiaries, to incur additional indebtedness because of financial ratios which we must meet. Thus, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to grow our business and we may lose opportunities to acquire interests in oil and natural gas properties or related businesses because of our inability to fund such growth. Our ability to comply with the restrictions and covenants of our indebtedness in the future is uncertain and is affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants could result in a default, which could permit the lender to accelerate repayments and foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness. Any additional future indebtedness may limit our financial and operating flexibility in a manner similar to and potentially more restrictive than the facilities discussed above. In addition, our pursuit of capital could result in the issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities. Acquisition prospects may be difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our operations. On a consistent basis, we evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on terms we consider favorable. In particular, we pursue acquisitions of businesses or interests that will complement and allow us 20 Table of Contents to expand our exploration activities; however, currently, we have no binding commitments related to any acquisitions. The successful acquisition of interests in oil and natural gas properties requires an assessment of: • recoverable reserves; • exploration potential; • future oil and natural gas prices; • operating costs; • potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors; and • permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations. In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting conclusions are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain, and such an assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every platform or well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. As a result, acquired properties may prove to be worth less than we pay for them. Future acquisitions could pose numerous additional risks to our operations and financial results, including: • problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of resources and management attention from our core business; • entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of any acquired organization. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas exploration, development, production, leasing, and acquisition activities. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies as well as from both major and other independent oil and natural gas companies in each of the following areas: • seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; • marketing our oil and natural gas production; • integrating new technologies; and • seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate our properties. Many of our competitors have financial, technological and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil and natural gas companies. These companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Further, these companies may enjoy technological advantages and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Our business exposes us to liability and extensive regulation on environmental matters. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations not only expose us to liability for our own negligence, but may also expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for our actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. We may incur significant costs as a result of environmental accidents, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, 21 Table of Contents ruptures, or discharges of hazardous materials into the environment, including clean-up costs and fines or penalties. Additionally, we may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations and may be forced to pay fines or penalties if we do not comply. A significant portion of our operations is conducted in Turkey, Hungary, Romania and France. Therefore, we are subject to political and economic risks and other uncertainties. We have international operations and are subject to the following foreign issues and uncertainties that can affect our operations adversely: • the risk of expropriation, nationalization, war, revolution, border disputes, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, and import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; • taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; • exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over international operations; • laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; • the possibility of being subjected to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and • the possibility of restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital from foreign countries. Terrorist activities may adversely affect our business. Terrorist activities, including events similar to those of September 11, 2001, or armed conflict involving the United States or any other country in which we hold interests, may adversely affect our business activities and financial condition. If events of this nature occur and persist, the resulting political and social instability could adversely affect prevailing oil and natural gas prices and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, oil and natural gas production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs associated with insurance and other security measures may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. We are highly dependent upon key personnel. Our continued success is dependent to a significant degree upon the services of our executive officers and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel who are experienced in the various phases of our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or are unable to attract and retain qualified geologists, geophysicists and other technical personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of our executive officers. Our marketing of oil and natural gas production principally depends upon facilities operated by others, and these operations may change and have a material adverse effect on our marketing. Our marketing of oil and natural gas production principally depends upon facilities operated by others. The operations of those facilities may change and have a material adverse effect on our marketing of oil and natural gas production. In addition, we rely upon third parties to operate many of our properties and may have no control over the timing, extent and cost of development and operations. As a result of these third-party operations, we cannot control the timing and volumes of production. Transportation space on the gathering systems and pipelines we utilize is occasionally limited or unavailable due to repairs or improvements to facilities or due to space being utilized by other companies that have priority transportation agreements. Our access to transportation options also can be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation and foreign regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. These factors and the availability of markets are beyond our control. If market factors dramatically change, the financial impact on our revenues could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to renew our permits or obtain new ones. We do not hold title to properties in Turkey, Hungary, Romania and France, but have exploration and exploitation permits granted by these countries’ respective governments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of these permits when they expire, convert exploration permits into exploitation permits or obtain additional permits in the future. Since we do not hold title to our foreign properties but rather hold exploitation and exploration permits granted to us by the applicable foreign governments, the Securities and Exchange Commission may require that a certain portion of proved reserves associated with these permits not be included in our proved reserves. Rather than holding title to our foreign properties, we hold exploitation and exploration permits that have been granted to us for a specific time period by the applicable foreign governments. We must apply to have these permits renewed and extended in order to continue our exploration and development rights. Although we have always reported our proved reserves assuming that the permits will be extended in due course, the Securities and Exchange Commission may take the view that our ability to renew and extend our permits past their current expiration dates is not sufficiently certain such that we should not include the reserves that may be produced post expiration in our total proved reserves. Although we have previously been able to provide support to the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the likelihood of extension, no assurance can be given that the Securities and Exchange Commission will allow us to continue to include these additional reserves in our proved reserves. Any future hedging activities may require us to make significant payments that are not offset by sales of production and may prevent us from benefiting from increases in oil or natural gas prices. Although we are not currently a party to a hedging transaction, occasionally we may reduce our exposure to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices by hedging a portion of our production. In a typical hedge transaction, we will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we will be required to pay the counterparty this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged. In such case, we will be required to pay the difference regardless of whether we have sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floating price exceeds the fixed price could require us to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are not offset by sales of production. Hedging also could prevent us from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil or natural gas prices above the fixed amount specified in the hedge. Our operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks. We currently have operations involving the U.S. dollar, Euro, New Turkish Lira, Forint and Romanian Lei. We are subject to fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the Euro, New Turkish Lira, Forint and Romanian Lei respectively. These fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot rely on the results of our non-core assets in the future. We have made equity investments in technology-related businesses that, although related to the energy industry, are not part of our core strategy. Although we have obtained a return of some of our initial investments and have received earnings from these investments during various periods, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any future returns from these investments. Additionally, these investments are subject to the risks associated generally with technology-related industries, including obsolescence, competition, concentration and the inability to obtain the necessary capital for future growth. Risks Related To Our Industry A decline in oil and natural gas prices will have an adverse impact on our operations. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. In recent years, oil and natural gas prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration, development and 23 Table of Contents production, have been extremely volatile. Any significant or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could impair access to future sources of capital. Volatility in the oil and natural gas industry results from numerous factors over which we have no control, including: • the level of oil and natural gas prices, expectations about future oil and natural gas prices and the ability of international cartels to set and maintain production levels and prices; • the cost of exploring for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • domestic and foreign governmental regulation; • the level and price of foreign oil and natural gas transportation; • available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity; • weather conditions; • international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and the availability of alternative fuels; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise capital. Significant declines in oil and natural gas prices for an extended period may: • impair our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; • reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; • cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; • reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; and • reduce the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. No assurance can be given that current levels of oil and natural gas prices will continue. We expect oil and natural gas prices, as well as the oil and natural gas industry generally, to continue to be volatile. Continued financial success depends on our ability to replace our reserves in the future. Our future success as an oil and natural gas producer depends upon our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are profitable. Oil and natural gas are depleting assets, and production from oil and natural gas from properties declines as reserves are depleted with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. If we are unable to conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves generally will decline as the reserves are produced, and our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. Replacing our reserves through exploration or development activities or acquisitions will require significant capital which may not be available to us. We face numerous risks in finding commercially productive oil and natural gas reservoirs. Our drilling will involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. We may incur significant expenditures for the identification and acquisition of properties and for the drilling and completion of wells. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. In addition, any use by us of 3D seismic and other advanced technology to explore for oil and natural gas requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling methodologies. While we use advanced technology in our operations, this technology does not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or economically producible. 24 Table of Contents In addition, as a “successful efforts” company, we account for unsuccessful exploration efforts, i.e., the drilling of “dry holes,” as an expense of operations which impacts our earnings. Significant expensed exploration charges in any period would materially adversely affect our earnings for that period and could cause our earnings to be volatile from period to period. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks. As noted by the fact that in 2005 we incurred two separate incidents, in offshore Turkey in the Black Sea, which resulted in the loss of two caissons and three wells, our operations are subject to the risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, including the risks of: • fire, explosions and blowouts; • pipe failure; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination). These events may result in substantial losses to us from: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution or other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation; • penalties and suspension of operations; or • attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As is customary in our industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. We cannot assure investors that our insurance will be adequate to cover these losses or liabilities. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We carry well control insurance for our drilling operations. Our coverage includes blowout protection and liability protection on domestic and international wells. The producing wells in which we have an interest occasionally experience reduced or terminated production. These curtailments can result from mechanical failures, contract terms, pipeline and processing plant interruptions, market conditions and weather conditions. These curtailments can last from a few days to many months. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this annual report. In order to prepare these estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions relating to matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and pre-tax net present value of reserves shown in this annual report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of 25 Table of Contents exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Investors should not assume that the pre-tax net present value of our proved reserves referred to in this annual report is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the pre-tax net present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices, costs, and the volume of produced reserves may differ materially from those used in the pre-tax net present value estimate. Risks Related To Our Common Stock and Notes Our stock’s public trading price has been volatile, which may depress the trading price of our common stock. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Overall market conditions, in addition to other risks and uncertainties described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report, may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We participate in a price sensitive industry, which often results in significant volatility in the market price of common stock irrespective of company performance. As a result, our high and low closing stock prices for the twelve months ended March 24, 2006 were $37.25 and $14.80 respectively. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by conditions in the energy and oil and natural gas industries or conditions in the financial markets generally. Because the notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate equal to 23.3596 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, volatility in the price of our common stock may depress the trading price of the notes. The risk of volatility and depressed prices of our common stock also applies to holders who receive shares of common stock upon conversion of their notes. Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “TRGL.” However, daily trading volumes for our common stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other publicly traded securities. It may be difficult for investors to sell their shares of common stock in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of our common stock may, therefore, be volatile. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, among other things: • current events affecting the political, economic and social situation in the United States and other countries where we operate; • trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate; • litigation involving or affecting us; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • acquisitions and financings by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in operating results; • volatility in exchange rates between the US dollar and the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may consider to be comparable; and • purchases or sales of blocks of our securities. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. These factors, among others, could significantly depress the trading price of the notes and the price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents A large percentage of our common stock is owned by our officers and directors, and such stockholders may control our business and affairs. At March 24, 2006, our officers and directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 22.08% of our common stock (including shares issuable upon exercise of stock options held by officers and directors, upon conversion of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock held by directors and affiliates of certain directors and upon conversion of the second amended and restated convertible debenture held by an affiliate of a director). The officers and directors control our business and affairs. Due to their large ownership percentage interest, they may be able to remain entrenched in their positions. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to continue our policy of retaining earnings to finance the growth of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our outstanding shares of preferred stock and the $15 million facility restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, holders who convert their notes and receive shares of our common stock will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common stock appreciates, which we cannot assure. The notes are unsecured and are subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness. The notes are unsecured and subordinated in right of payment to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness, to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness, and are effectively subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries, including trade payables. The indenture does not restrict our ability to incur additional debt, including secured debt. As of December 31, 2005, we had no secured indebtedness and our subsidiaries had $5 million of indebtedness and trade payables of approximately $20 million that would effectively rank senior to the notes. Any amounts borrowed under our credit facilities would effectively rank senior to the notes. Currently, we have the ability to borrow approximately an additional $3 million under the $15 million credit facility and approximately $3.3 million under the $25 million reserve-based credit facility secured by our U.S. assets. In the event of our insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up, we may not have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on any or all of the notes then outstanding. The notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries has guaranteed or otherwise become obligated with respect to the notes, and, as a result, the notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities and other obligations of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our right to receive assets from any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization, and the right of holders of the notes to participate in those assets, is effectively subordinated to claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. Even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of that entity and any indebtedness of that entity senior to that held by us. Statutory, contractual or other restrictions may also limit our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions, loans or advances to us. In particular, because many of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States, there may be significant tax and other legal restrictions on the ability of those non-U.S. entities to remit money to us. For these reasons, we may not have access to any assets or cash flows of our subsidiaries to make payments on the notes. Additionally, our subsidiaries might borrow funds under our credit facilities, and any of these amounts would effectively rank senior to the notes. The increase in the conversion rate applicable to the notes that holders convert in connection with certain fundamental changes may not adequately compensate holders for the lost option time value of their notes as a result of that fundamental change. If certain fundamental changes occur before October 1, 2010, we will under certain circumstances increase the conversion rate applicable to certain holders. This increased conversion rate will apply to holders that surrender their notes for conversion from, and including, the effective date of such fundamental change until, and including, the 27 Table of Contents close of business on the business day immediately preceding the fundamental change repurchase date corresponding to such fundamental change. The amount of the increase in the conversion rate depends on the date when the fundamental change becomes effective and the applicable price described in this prospectus. Although the increase in the conversion rate is designed to compensate holders for the lost option time value of their notes as a result of the fundamental change, the increase in the conversion rate is only an approximation of the lost value and may not adequately compensate holders for the loss. In addition, holders will not be entitled to an increased conversion rate if: • the fundamental change occurs on or after October 1, 2010; • the applicable price is greater than $75.00 per share or less than $32.93 per share (in each case, subject to adjustment); or • we elect, in the case of a “public acquirer fundamental change,” to change the conversion right in lieu of increasing the conversion rate. Our ability to purchase the notes with cash at the investor’s option or upon a fundamental change, may be limited. Holders of the notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes for cash at specific times and upon the occurrence of specific circumstances. We cannot assure holders that, if required, we would have sufficient cash or other financial resources at that time or would be able to arrange financing to pay the purchase price of the notes in cash. Our ability to purchase the notes in such circumstances may be limited by law, by regulatory authorities, by the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness and by indebtedness and agreements that we may enter into in the future, which may replace, supplement or amend our existing or future indebtedness. In addition, statutory, contractual or other restrictions may also limit our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions, loans or advances to us. In particular, because many of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States, there may be significant tax and other legal restrictions on the ability of those non-U.S. entities to remit money to us. For these reasons, we may not have access to any assets or cash flows of our subsidiaries to make payments on the notes. Future sales or issuances of common stock or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock may depress the trading price of our common stock and the notes. Any issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares upon conversion of their notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the notes. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options, or upon conversion of preferred stock or debentures, or for other reasons. As of March 24, 2006, there were: • 843,690 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, at a weighted average exercise price of $5.09 per share, of which options to purchase 618,390 shares were exercisable; • 102,890 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants, at a weighted average exercise price of $19.35 per share, of which 92,890 were exercisable; • 450,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, at a conversion rate equal to 6.25 shares of common stock per share of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock (subject to certain adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends, mergers or assets distributions); 28 Table of Contents • 100,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our second amended and restated convertible debenture, at a conversion price of $6.75 per share of common stock; and • 55,665 shares of our common stock available for future grant under our equity incentive plan. The price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the notes. Our leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $92 million and represented approximately 41% of our total capitalization as of that date. In addition, the indenture for the notes does not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our payment obligations under the notes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may impair our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Because we have made only limited covenants in the indenture for the notes, and the terms of the notes do not provide protection against some types of important corporate events, these limited covenants and protections against certain types of important corporate events may not protect holders’ investment. The indenture for the notes does not: • require us to maintain any financial ratios or specific levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flows or liquidity and, accordingly, does not protect holders of the notes in the event that we experience significant adverse changes in our financial condition or results of operations; • limit our subsidiaries’ ability to incur indebtedness which would effectively rank senior to the notes; • limit our ability to incur indebtedness that is equal in right of payment to the notes; • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to issue securities that would be senior to the common stock of our subsidiaries held by us; • restrict our ability to repurchase our securities; or 29 Table of Contents • restrict our ability to make investments or to pay dividends or make other payments in respect of our common stock or other securities ranking junior to the notes. Furthermore, the indenture for the notes contains only limited protections in the event of a change in control. We could engage in many types of transactions, such as certain acquisitions, refinancings or recapitalizations, which could substantially affect our capital structure and the value of the notes and our common stock but would not constitute a “fundamental change” that permits holders to require us to repurchase their notes. For these reasons, potential holders should not consider the covenants in the indenture or the repurchase feature of the notes as a significant factor in evaluating whether to invest in the notes. If an active and liquid trading market for the notes does not develop, the market price of the notes may decline and investors may be unable to sell their notes. The notes are a new issue of securities for which there is no established trading market. We do not intend to list the notes on any national securities exchange. Accordingly, we do not know if an active trading market will develop for the notes. Even if a trading market for the notes develops, the market may not be liquid. If an active trading market does not develop, investors may be unable to resell their notes or may only be able to sell them at a substantial discount. Future trading prices of the notes will depend on many factors, including our operating performance and financial condition, prevailing interest rates and the market for similar securities. Holders of notes are not entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock, but are subject to all changes made with respect to our common stock. Holders of notes are not entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our common stock), but are subject to all changes affecting our common stock. Holders will have the rights with respect to our common stock only when we deliver shares of common stock, if any, upon conversion of the notes. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation or bylaws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the delivery of common stock, if any, to holders, holders will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although holders will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our common stock. The conversion rate of the notes may not be adjusted for all dilutive events that may occur. We will adjust the conversion rate of the notes for certain events, including, among others: • the issuance of stock dividends on our common stock; • the issuance of certain rights or warrants; • certain subdivisions and combinations of our capital stock; • the distribution of capital stock, indebtedness or assets; and • certain tender or exchange offers. We will not adjust the conversion rate for other events, such as an issuance of common stock for cash or in connection with an acquisition, which may adversely affect the trading price of the notes or our common stock. If we engage in any of these types of transactions, the value of the common stock into which the notes may be convertible may be diluted. There can be no assurance that an event that adversely affects the value of the notes, but does not result in an adjustment to the conversion rate, will not occur. 30 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents, the indenture for the notes and Delaware law could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to holders of our common stock or the notes. If a “change in control” (as defined in the indenture) occurs, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the event of certain “fundamental changes” (as defined in the indenture), we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to notes surrendered for conversion upon the fundamental change. In addition, the indenture for the notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the notes. These and other provisions, including the provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law, could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to holders of our common stock or the notes. Certain provisions of our charter documents may adversely impact our stockholders. Our charter documents provide our board of directors with the right to issue preferred stock upon such terms and conditions as it deems to be our best interests. The terms of such preferred stock may adversely impact the dividend and liquidation rights of the common stockholders without the approval of the common stockholders. Holders of notes may have to pay U.S. federal taxes if we adjust the conversion rate in certain circumstances, even if the investor does not receive any cash. We will adjust the conversion rate of the notes for stock splits and combinations, stock dividends, cash dividends and certain other events that affect our capital structure. If we adjust the conversion rate, holders of the notes may be treated as having received a constructive distribution from us, resulting in taxable income to holders of the notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes, even though holders of the notes would not receive any cash in connection with the conversion rate adjustment and even though holders of the notes might not exercise their conversion right. In addition, non-U.S. holders of notes will, in certain circumstances, be deemed to have received a distribution subject to U.S. federal withholding tax requirements. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 