Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report, may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We participate in a price sensitive industry, which often results in significant volatility in the market price of common stock irrespective of company performance. As a result, our high and low closing stock prices for the twelve months ended March 8, 2007 were $34.49 and $17.14 respectively. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by conditions in the energy and oil and natural gas industries or conditions in the financial markets generally. Because our Convertible Senior Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate equal to 23.3596 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes, volatility in the price of our common stock may depress the trading price of the Convertible Senior Notes. The risk of volatility and depressed prices of our common stock also applies to holders who receive shares of common stock upon conversion of their Convertible Senior Notes. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “TRGL.” However, daily trading volumes for our common stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other publicly traded securities. It may be difficult for investors to sell their shares of common stock in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of our common stock may, therefore, be volatile. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, among other things: 25 Table of Contents • current events affecting the political, economic and social situation in the United States and other countries where we operate; • trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate; • litigation involving or affecting us; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • acquisitions and financings by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in operating results; • volatility in exchange rates between the US dollar and the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may consider to be comparable; and • purchases or sales of blocks of our securities. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. These factors, among others, could significantly depress the price of our common stock. A large percentage of our common stock is owned by our officers and directors, and such stockholders may control our business and affairs. At March 8, 2007, our officers and directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 14 % of our common stock (including shares issuable upon exercise of stock options held by officers and directors and upon conversion of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock held by directors and affiliates of certain directors). Due to their large ownership percentage interest, they may be able remain entrenched in their positions. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to continue our policy of retaining earnings to finance the growth of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our outstanding shares of preferred stock and our loan and guarantee agreement with the International Finance Corporation restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, holders who convert their Convertible Senior Notes and receive shares of our common stock will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common stock appreciates, which we cannot assure. We may issue equity securities in the future which may depress the trading price of our common stock and may dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. Future sales or issuances of common stock or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock may depress the trading price of our common stock . Any issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the notes. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options, or upon conversion of preferred stock or debentures, or for other reasons. As of March 8, 2007, there were: 26 Table of Contents • 673,870 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, at a weighted average exercise price of $5.13 per share, of which options to purchase 660,536 shares were exercisable; • 98,760 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants, at a weighted average exercise price of $19.81 per share, of which 98,760 were exercisable; • 450,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, at a conversion rate equal to 6.25 shares of common stock per share of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock (subject to certain adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends, mergers or assets distributions); and • 421,915 shares of our common stock available for future grant under our equity incentive plan. Additionally, we are currently considering possible issuances of additional equity securities in order to fund our capital expenditures budget for 2007 which equity securities may be sold at a discount to current market prices and may result in substantial dilution to our equity holders. Our leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $112.8 million and represented approximately .77 of our total capitalization as of that date. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our payment obligations under our indebtedness; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may impair our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Provisions in our charter documents, the indenture for the Convertible Senior Notes and Delaware law could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to holders of our common stock or the Convertible Senior Notes. If a “change in control” (as defined in the indenture for the Convertible Senior Notes ) occurs, holders of the Convertible Senior Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the event of certain “fundamental changes” (as defined in the indenture for the Convertible Senior Notes), we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to notes surrendered for conversion upon the fundamental change. In addition, the indenture for the Convertible Senior Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the notes. These and other provisions, including the provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law, could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to holders of our common stock or the notes. 27 Table of Contents Certain provisions of our charter documents may adversely impact our stockholders. Our charter documents provide our board of directors the right to issue preferred stock upon such terms and conditions as it deems to be in our best interests. The terms of such preferred stock may adversely impact the dividend and liquidation rights of the common stockholders without the approval of the common stockholders. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 