Item 1A. Risk Factors While our management's long-term expectations for our company are optimistic, we face risks or uncertainties that may affect our results of operations. The following conditions, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. A decline in revenues resulting from current market conditions and pricing pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business profitability. During the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, the global securities markets experienced historical levels of volatility and market movement. These conditions have had a negative impact on the financial stability of some of our financial sector clients, resulting in the accelerated consolidation of some of our broker dealer clients, as well as the closure of certain of our hedge fund clients. Accelerated consolidation in the brokerage industry and hedge fund closures have resulted in, and could continue to result in, a decline in our subscription and maintenance revenue due to cancellations of services. Although subscription and maintenance revenues are not directly affected by trading volumes, to the extent that our clients’ revenues are negatively impacted by current market conditions, their ability to purchase services and products from us in the future could be impacted. In light of these conditions, there can be no assurance that overall market trading volumes will maintain their current level or grow, which could have a negative impact on our transaction revenues. In addition, there has recently been a proliferation of electronic execution firms in the U.S. and Europe. These new entrants, as well as increased competition for our subscription and maintenance services from existing competitors, could negatively impact the price we charge for our services and reduce our revenues. Since a large portion of our costs related to subscription and maintenance and transaction revenues are fixed, a decline in revenues due to pricing pressures would negatively impact our profitability. We may face risks associated with our international operations that could impair our ability to grow our international revenues. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop their businesses. We may not be able to develop international market demand for our products or services, which could impair our ability to grow our revenues. For example, as part of our strategy to increase transaction revenues globally, we launched our Euro Millennium platform in March 2008 for matching pan-European listed equities. Euro Millennium did not generate meaningful revenues during the year ended December 31, 2008. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, we have limited experience marketing, distributing and supporting our products and services internationally and, to do so, we expect that we will need to develop versions of our products that comply with local standards. Furthermore, international operations are subject to other inherent risks, including: • reliance on distributors and resellers; • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer collection cycles; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • the impact of differing technical standards outside the United States; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • changes in regulatory or capitalization requirements, or in currency exchange rates; • certification requirements; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. We are subject to rapid changes in technology which could impact our profitability and our ability to compete effectively. Due to the high demand for technology-based services in the securities industry, we are subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. Also, customer demands become greater and more sophisticated as the dissemination of information to clients increases. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner and to adapt to the technological advancements and changing standards, we will be less able to compete effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do to fund such technological advancements. Similarly, the development of technology-based services is a complex and time-consuming process which may not always yield marketable products and services. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products could negatively impact our revenues. Our ability to maintain or expand our brokerage business could be adversely impacted if we do not continue to have third-party assistance to access exchanges and other important trading venues. Our Transaction Services Division provides execution services with the assistance of third parties who provide us access to exchanges and other important trading venues in the execution business, such as ECNs and ATSs in the United States and MTFs in Europe. If such third parties, exchanges or regulators limit or curtail our indirect access, this could have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain or expand this business. We are highly reliant upon our computer and other electronic systems. Our disaster recovery plan may not be sufficient to prevent loss in the context of a significant power or telecommunications failure, computer virus, software defects, or human error. If our disaster recovery plan fails in response to such events, we and our clients could lose revenue and we could be subject to liability for client losses. A slowdown in the operations of such services could also materially adversely affect our business and our clients. Our services depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant amounts of data and to receive and process trade orders electronically. Our business is based upon our ability to perform such functions rapidly. Our systems and data centers could fail or slow down significantly due to a number of factors, including the volume of orders entered and executed, human error, software defects and power failures, caused by a variety of factors, or outages, caused by high demand placed on the infrastructures of the utilities we use in the Metro New York area and our disaster recovery plan may prove insufficient when responding to such events. Since it is fairly common for multiple carriers to share the same physical 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS infrastructure such as central offices, telephone poles and below-ground conduit, instances like major cable cuts or regional natural disasters could also cause such power or telecommunications failures. Due to the complexity of these electrical systems, errors or failures could occur which render an entire site to be unusable. We constantly monitor system loads and performances and upgrade our systems to the extent we determine to be appropriate to handle estimated increases in power consumption. However, we may not be able to accurately predict future demand. Any significant degradation or failure of one or more of our networks or the inability of our disaster recovery plan to react to such events properly could cause our clients to suffer delays in transaction processing, which could damage our reputation, increase our service costs, result in error positions and settlement breaks (potentially causing losses) or cause us to lose clients and revenues. We may be exposed to employee misconduct or errors that create risk for our company. Employee misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of customers or improper use of confidential information. Such misconduct could result in losses, litigation or other material adverse effects on us. Similarly, employee errors in recording or executing transactions for customers or employee failure to correctly modify our technology systems to reflect regulatory or other required changes could cause us to enter into transactions that customers may disavow and refuse to settle. These transactions expose us to risk of loss, which can be material, until we detect the errors in question and unwind or reverse the transactions. As with any unsettled transaction, adverse movements in the prices of the securities involved in these transactions before we unwind or reverse them can increase this risk. The fact that our share price has traded under $1.00 since mid-November 2008 could result in our common stock being delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ Capital Market’s continued listing requirements relating to bid price provide that a security will be considered deficient if it fails to achieve at least a $1.00 closing bid price for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Once deficient, a company is provided one 180-day period to regain compliance. A company can regain compliance by achieving a $1.00 closing bid price for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. The NASDAQ Stock Market, however, has waived, with SEC approval, the minimum bid price requirement until April 20, 2009. Our common stock has been trading below a $1.00 minimum bid price since mid-November 2008. To the extent that the NASDAQ Stock Market does not seek and receive SEC approval for an additional extension of the April 20, 2009 minimum bid price waiver expiration date and we are not able to regain compliance within the prescribed period, our common stock will be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market. We have been unprofitable in the past and we may not be profitable in the future. If we are required to record an additional impairment charge relating to our goodwill because we are not profitable and such charge is sufficiently large, the impact on our consolidated financial statements could be material. We have incurred significant losses over the past several years. If this trend continues, we may be required to record an additional impairment charge relating to our goodwill. If the impairment charge is sufficiently large, the impact on our consolidated financial statements could be material. We depend on a limited number of network equipment, software and telecommunications suppliers and do not have supply contracts. Our inability to obtain necessary network equipment, technical support or other telecommunications services or being forced to pay higher prices for such equipment, support or services could materially adversely affect our business. Some key components we use in our networks are available only from a limited number of equipment and software suppliers. The services required for operation of our networks are also provided to us by a limited number of telecommunication services providers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with the 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS suppliers of the key components of our networks or any other limited source vendors, and we purchase data network equipment on a purchase order basis. We also have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of the services required to maintain such networks or even the continued performance of such services. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of equipment, required technical support or services, or to develop alternate sources as required in the future, our ability to deploy equipment in and operate our networks could be delayed or reduced, or we may be forced to pay higher prices for our network components or related services. Delays or reductions in supplies or services could lead to slowdowns or failures of our networks. The securities brokerage industry is subject to extensive government and other regulation. If our U.S. or U.K. registered broker dealers fail to comply with these regulations, they may be subject to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations. Changes in such regulations could increase our compliance costs. NYFIX Millennium and NYFIX Securities are subject to extensive U.S. regulation under both federal and state laws and NYFIX International, Euro Millennium and FIXCITY are subject to extensive regulation under U.K. laws. In addition to these laws, we must comply with rules of the SEC, FINRA, the FSA, various stock exchanges, state securities commissions and other regulatory bodies charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors participating in these markets. As regulated subsidiaries, our registered broker dealer subsidiaries are subject to numerous regulations covering the securities business, including: • marketing practices; • systems and controls; • capital structure, including net capital requirements; • record keeping; • maintenance of a fair and orderly market; • the prevention of market abuse and money laundering; • conflicts of interest; and • conduct of directors, officers and employees. The ability of our regulated subsidiaries to comply with such regulations depends largely on the establishment and maintenance of an effective compliance system, as well as their ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. In addition, their mode of operation and profitability may be directly affected by: • additional legislation; • changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, FINRA, the FSA, the various stock exchanges or other SROs; • the introduction of European directives; or • changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules. For example, the FSA, along with other European regulators, is currently conducting an extensive review of the impact that MiFID has had on European markets. In connection with this review, the FSA has interpreted a particular provision of MiFID in a way that will require modifications to Euro Millennium’s current functionality. Such modifications will result in additional development costs for us. Despite the fact that we believe that we are currently operating Euro Millennium in a manner that is fully compliant with MiFID, a position supported by external legal counsel opinions obtained at the request of the FSA, we are engaged in ongoing conversations with the FSA regarding this interpretation and expect to find a mutually acceptable solution. This solution, however, could have an impact on Euro Millennium’s service. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to make any required modifications within a timeframe acceptable to the FSA. To the extent that we cannot meet the FSA’s timeframe, the FSA could react in a 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS variety of ways ranging from an extension of our deadline for compliance to enforcement action or potential revocation of our MTF operating license. We would vigorously appeal any such action. If we are unable to defend against regulatory claims, we may be subject to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations, including censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension, and/or disqualification of our officers, directors or employees, or criminal prosecution. The fines, if material, could have an adverse effect on our earnings and could result in increased capital requirements. If any of our employees were suspended or disqualified, we may be unable to meet the needs of our clients or to solicit new business. This could also have an adverse effect on our earnings. Furthermore, any such penalties could materially harm our reputation in the industry, which could have a long-term effect on our financial growth. In addition, as a result of recent market conditions, U.S. federal, state, U.K. and other international legislative and regulatory authorities have announced that they are evaluating the current regulatory oversight over financial industry participants, including broker-dealers. It is possible that one or more of these regulators will adopt changes to their established rules and policies. Any new laws, regulations or increased regulatory oversight or enhanced capital requirements may adversely affect our financial condition, prospects or results of operations. We are exposed to clearance, settlement and credit risks that could materially adversely affect our business. In the event that trades do not properly settle, our broker-dealer subsidiaries may have to finance our clients’ positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults of our clients. Although we regularly review credit exposure, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that may be difficult to detect or foresee. Concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect NYFIX. One of our U.S. subsidiaries, NYFIX Securities, is subject to a maximum intra-day credit limit, or debit cap, imposed by the DTCC. In addition, to be able to clear trades, NYFIX Securities may require added commitments from unaffiliated institutions to provide funding during a settlement day (“intra-day funding”). An inability to maintain or raise its maximum limits or to obtain and maintain third-party commitments to support intra-day funding could have an adverse impact on NYFIX Securities’ ability to maintain or expand its business. We are exposed to credit risk from third parties that owe us money, securities, or other obligations, including our customers and trading counterparties. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Volatile securities markets, credit markets and regulatory changes increase our exposure to credit risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The current financial difficulties affecting many of our clients could result in an increased credit risk to our company to the extent that our clients are unable to settle their outstanding obligations, including pending trades and billed receivables. Our failure to meet applicable net capital requirements, or adverse changes in the current net capital requirements, could restrict our business operations. The SEC, the FSA and FINRA, as well as other regulatory agencies and securities exchanges within and outside the U.S., have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by regulated broker-dealers. These rules include the SEC’s Net Capital Rule (15c3-1), to which our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject, and the financial resources requirements of the FSA to which our registered U.K. subsidiaries are subject (collectively, “the Net Capital Rules”). In addition, a change in any of the Net Capital Rules applicable to our regulated subsidiaries, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against the net capital of one of our regulated subsidiaries could limit its operations, particularly those that are capital intensive. A large charge to the net capital of one of these subsidiaries could result from an error or other operational failure or a failure of a client to complete one or more transactions, including as a result of that client’s insolvency or other credit difficulties, and we cannot be assured that we would be able to furnish the affected subsidiary with the requisite additional capital to offset that charge. The Net Capital Rules could also restrict our ability to withdraw capital from our regulated subsidiaries, which could limit our ability to pay cash dividends if we 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS decided to pay dividends, repay debt, repurchase shares of our outstanding stock or finance acquisitions. A significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against the net capital of any of our regulated subsidiaries could adversely affect our financial position. In addition, as a member of DTCC, NYFIX Securities is required to maintain excess net capital of $10 million. If our regulated subsidiaries fall below their minimum regulatory net capital and minimum excess regulatory net capital requirements, their operations would be restricted by their respective regulatory agencies. We are the subject of several legal and administrative proceedings relating to our granting of stock options to certain of our employees, officers and directors. We are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and can give no assurances that the outcome of these proceedings will not have a material impact on us or that other proceedings will not be initiated. We are named as a nominal defendant in Federal and state shareholder derivative actions against us and several of our current and former officers and directors, asserting, among other things, claims under the federal securities laws, corporate waste, fraud and breach of fiduciary duty against all the individual defendants based on claimed backdating of stock option grants to these individuals between 1997 and 2003. In addition, certain stockholders made formal inquiries regarding alleged violations of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act based on the same facts alleged in these actions. On February 25, 2009, the parties to these various actions executed a global settlement agreement and filed a motion seeking court approval of the settlement. That motion remains pending. There can be no assurance that the court will approve the settlement. If the court approves the settlement, the court’s decision may be subject to appeal. In addition, we are the subject of two SEC investigations. The first matter dates to October 2004 and relates to our historical stock option granting practices and related matters. In March and April 2005, the SEC issued subpoenas to a current director and to former officers and directors. The SEC took testimony from one current director, at least three former directors and at least one of our former employees, as well as from third parties, including our former independent registered public accounting firm. The SEC also issued subpoenas to at least two other current and former directors but has not requested their testimony. We provided more than 800,000 pages of documents to the SEC in relation to this investigation during the period from January 2006 to April 2007, and believe that we produced all responsive documents. Our last communication with the SEC regarding this investigation was in June 2007. This matter is still pending as of March 16, 2009. The second matter dates to July 2004 and relates to the restatement of our 1999 through 2002 consolidated financial statements filed in May 2004 and questions our accounting for losses incurred by NYFIX Millennium. In March 2006, we announced that the SEC’s Enforcement Staff had advised us that it is recommending that the SEC close its inquiry into this matter without any action being taken against us or any individual. The Staff’s recommendation is subject to a formal approval process within the SEC. Such formal approval is still pending as of March 16, 2009. We could be subject to substantial penalties, fines or regulatory sanctions by the SEC, as well as claims by our former officers, directors or employees for indemnification of costs they may incur in connection with the SEC investigations, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are unable to predict the outcome of any of these matters at this time and can give no assurances that the outcome of any of these proceedings will not have a material impact on our profitability. If we fail to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify in the future, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. During 2007, we conducted our initial evaluation of the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. As of that date, two material weaknesses, as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS States), were identified. A material weakness is a deficiency in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. During 2008, we successfully remediated these material weaknesses and no additional material weaknesses were identified in our assessment as of December 31, 2008. However, there can be no assurance that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. In the event that a material weakness is identified, we will employ qualified personnel and adopt and implement policies and procedures to address any material weaknesses that we identify. However, the process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. There can be no assurance that the measures we will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our capital stock. Warburg Pincus Private Equity IX LP (“Warburg Pincus”) owns a significant portion of our voting securities and its interests may not be aligned with those of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, Warburg Pincus owned approximately 35% of our outstanding voting securities and, if Warburg Pincus had exercised the Warrant held by it as of that date, it would have owned approximately 38% of the voting power of our then outstanding common stock. In addition, Warburg Pincus is entitled to appoint two members of our Board of Directors. As a result of its stock holdings, Warburg Pincus may now have, or may acquire upon exercise of its Warrant, the ability to significantly influence the election of our directors and the outcome of other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. This ability may enable Warburg Pincus to influence management and may discourage a third party from making a significant equity investment in us or seeking to acquire us. As a result of the rights and preferences of Warburg Pincus’ preferred stock holdings, Warburg Pincus’ interests may differ from those of our other stockholders in material respects. Additionally, Warburg Pincus may determine that the disposition of some or all of its interests in us would be beneficial to it at a time when such disposition could be detrimental to us or our other holders. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. We may acquire complimentary products, technologies or businesses. In the event of future acquisitions, we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • reduce significantly our cash and investments; • incur debt or assume liabilities; • incur significant impairment charges related to the write-off of goodwill and purchased intangible assets; • incur significant amortization expenses related to purchased intangible assets; or • incur large and immediate write-offs for in-process research and development and stock-based compensation. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be unable to successfully integrate any products, technologies, businesses or personnel that we might acquire in the future without significant costs or disruption to our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 