Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have been unprofitable in the past and we may not be profitable in the future. If we are required to record an impairment charge relating to our goodwill because we are not profitable, and such charge is sufficiently large, the impact on our consolidated financial statements could be material. Over the past four years we have made many acquisitions that have negatively impacted our costs. Although we have seen growth in our revenues and have restructured certain office operating leases, we have not been able to generate consistent quarterly profits. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge relating to our goodwill. If the impairment charge is sufficiently large, the impact on our consolidated financial statements could be material. In addition, costs incurred for professional fees for outside accountants and lawyers to restate and re-audit financial results, to produce and analyze document requests and to address related litigation have been significant and are expected to be significant in 2007. -25- We are highly reliant upon our computer and other electronic systems. A significant power or telecommunications failure, computer virus, increased order volume, software defects, or human error could cause us and our clients to lose revenue and subject us to liability for client losses. A slowdown in the operations of such services could also materially adversely affect our business and our clients. Our services depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant amounts of data and to receive and process trade orders electronically. Our business is based upon our ability to perform such functions rapidly. Our systems and data centers could fail or slow down significantly due to a number of factors, including the volume of orders entered and executed, human error, software defects and power failures, caused by a variety of factors, or outages, caused by high demand placed on the infrastructures of the utilities we use in the Metro New York area. Since it is fairly common for multiple carriers to share the same physical infrastructure such as central offices, telephone poles and below-ground conduit, instances like major cable cuts or regional natural disasters could also cause such power or telecommunications failures. Due to the complexity of these electrical systems, errors or failures could occur which render an entire site to be unusable. We constantly monitor system loads and performances and upgrade our systems to the extent we determine to be appropriate to handle estimated increases in power consumption. However, we may not be able to accurately predict future demand. To mitigate the impact of power failures, we maintain critical data center facilities at two separate locations in the Metro New York area. Although these data centers are located in the same geographical area, they are serviced via different power companies (i.e. ConEdison and Public Service Electric & Gas). In the event of a power outage at any of our data centers, we use uninterruptible power supplies (“UPS”) to provide limited battery backup for critical systems. We also use diesel-powered generators to backup the UPSs. In the event of loss of power or telecommunications services at either of these locations, we believe there are sufficient backup facilities in place to give us reasonable time to access, or switch over to, our redundant data center. It is possible that multiple telecommunications vendors could be impacted so severely that the multi-vendor and multi-site strategy would not ensure communications services to our clients. A computer virus infiltrating our systems through connections to client systems, emails received by us or connectivity to the Internet could also negatively impact the functioning of our computer systems. Although to date, we have not had any incidence of a virus fully penetrating our protective layers and infiltrating our production systems, we continue to review our protective layers and safeguards as our systems are susceptible to the growing number of potential viruses. Any significant degradation or failure of one or more of our networks could cause our clients to suffer delays in transaction processing, which could damage our reputation, increase our service costs, result in error positions and settlement breaks (potentially causing losses) or cause us to lose clients and revenues. We depend on a limited number of network equipment and telecommunications suppliers and do not have supply contracts. Our inability to obtain necessary network equipment, technical support or other telecommunications services or being forced to pay higher prices for such equipment, support or services could materially adversely affect our business. Some key components we use in our networks are available only from a limited number of suppliers. The services required for operation of our networks are also provided to us by a limited number of telecommunication services providers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with the suppliers of the key components of our networks or any other limited source vendors, and we purchase data network equipment on a purchase order basis. We also have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of the services required to maintain such networks or even the continued performance of such services. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of equipment, required technical support or services, or to develop alternate sources as required in the future, our ability to deploy equipment in and operate our networks could be delayed or reduced, or we may be forced to pay higher prices for our network components or related services. Delays or reductions in supplies or services could lead to slowdowns or failures of our networks. -26- We are subject to rapid changes in technology which could impact our profitability and our ability to compete effectively. Due to the high demand for technology-based services in the securities industry, we are subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. Also, customer demands become greater and more sophisticated as the dissemination of information to clients increases. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner and to adapt to the technological advancements and changing standards, we will be less able to compete effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do to fund such technological advancements. Similarly, the development of technology-based services is a complex and time-consuming process which may not always yield marketable products and services. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products could negatively impact our revenues. Our clients may develop in-house networks or use network providers other than NYFIX and divert part or all of their data communications from our networks to their networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our clients may develop in-house networks or use other network providers because such clients want to connect to destinations not part of our NYFIX Marketplace Service or to only certain, but not all, destinations covered by our NYFIX Marketplace Service. As a result of any of these events, we could experience lower revenues or lost revenues from delays in connecting clients to our NYFIX Marketplace Service indirectly through third party providers rather than directly by us. A decline in subscription and maintenance revenue, our largest source of revenue, or transaction revenue, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Subscription and maintenance revenue is our most significant source of revenue. Subscription and maintenance revenue rates are fixed based on a contractual period of time, typically one to three years, and is not affected by trading volumes. However, trading volumes do affect the revenues of our clients and this could affect their future purchases of our technology and services. Pricing pressures due to competition, failure to sign new agreements with clients because of reductions in their new technology spending, and observed consolidation in the financial sector could affect our revenues and profitability. Our costs associated with supporting the subscription and maintenance agreements are generally fixed and thus a loss of revenue would impact profitability. Transaction revenue has been a growing component of our revenue. There is no assurance, however, that we can continue to grow transaction revenue. As our costs to support transaction revenue are generally fixed, a decline in revenue would directly impact our profitability. Several risk factors apply to the analysis of the potential growth of transaction revenue: · Competitive pressure created by a proliferation of electronic execution competitors, including NYSE-Arca; · Potential changes in the U.S. market structure, e.g., the NYSE could establish limits on electronic access or create its own electronic matching order engine; there could be a consolidation of broker-dealers or a decline in the number of hedge funds; and · Increased client demands for bandwidth and speed, requiring reinvestment in hardware and software. We have no current plans to transition from the subscription and maintenance or transaction-based revenue model due to general acceptance of it in the marketplace and the current trend of recurring, predictable revenue recognition and cash flows. -27- We are exposed to clearance, settlement and credit risk that could materially adversely affect our business. NYFIX Clearing may have to finance our clients’ unsettled positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults of our clients. Although we regularly review credit exposure, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that may be difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect NYFIX. NYFIX Clearing is restricted to a maximum limit imposed by the DTCC. In addition, to be able to clear trades, NYFIX Clearing may require added commitments from unaffiliated institutions to provide funding during a settlement day (“intra-day funding”). An inability to maintain or raise its maximum limits or to obtain and maintain third-party commitments to support intra-day funding could have an adverse impact on NYFIX Clearing’s ability to maintain or expand its business. We are exposed to credit risk from third parties that owe us money, securities, or other obligations, including our customers and trading counterparties. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Volatile securities markets, credit markets and regulatory changes increase our exposure to credit risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our ability to maintain or expand our brokerage business could be adversely impacted if we do not continue to have third-party assistance to access exchanges and other important trading venues. Our Transaction Services Division provides execution services with the assistance of third parties who provide us access to exchanges and other important trading venues in the execution business such as ECNs and ATSs. If such third parties, exchanges or regulators determine that our Transaction Services Division must discontinue such indirect access, this could have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain or expand this business. Our clients may not approve our broker-dealer subsidiaries as counterparties if we are unable to maintain certain levels of capital, fail to file our periodic reports in a timely fashion, fail to obtain Nasdaq relisting, or are the subject of charges resulting from the SEC and DOJ investigations, and we may not be able to expand into other securities businesses without increased capital. Certain clients have stringent counterparty credit requirements that we may not satisfy if our capital falls below certain levels. If we are unable to satisfy these requirements, the result may be that clients limit the amount of transactions they enter into with us, which in turn would reduce our revenues. In addition, our ability to expand our Transaction Services business into new products and services may be limited by the amount of capital we have on hand. Failure to become and remain current with our periodic filing requirements, as well as the continued delisting of our stock by Nasdaq, might deter clients of our Transaction Services Division from continuing to do business with us. In addition, our clients may limit the amount of transactions they enter into with us if we are charged by the SEC and/or U.S. Attorney in the investigation into our historical stock option grants. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are at risk if their clients default on their trading obligations. Under applicable regulatory requirements, our broker-dealers are required to cover for their clients if their clients default on their trading obligations by improperly failing to deliver cash or securities on the date when a trade settles. The broker-dealer can pursue its client for losses the broker-dealer sustains by delivering the required cash or securities. Our broker-dealers attempt to manage the risks associated with client trading defaults by conducting a number of background checks on their clients, including financial history, credit, regulatory and legal checks. The broker-dealer decides which background checks to undertake based on the relationship with the client and the nature and extent of the business that the client has with the broker-dealer. In addition, our broker-dealers monitor trades to check that counterparties know and confirm trades before settlement date to minimize market risk to which our broker-dealers can be exposed between trade date and settlement date. Our membership in the stock loan program of the OCC mitigates our risk with respect to our matched-book stock borrow/stock loan business. The OCC guarantees the required mark-to-market payments related to the fluctuation in market value of the collateral underlying stock borrow/stock loan transactions processed by its members and is considered the principal counterparty to each transaction. At December 31, 2006, approximately 44% of our stock borrow/stock loan transactions outstanding were processed through the OCC. Despite these measures to reduce the risk to our broker-dealers from trading defaults by their clients, there can be no assurance that our broker-dealers will avoid such risks entirely or that if losses do occur they will not have a material impact on the financial condition or reputation of the affected broker-dealer. -28- The cost structure of our OMS business could negatively impact our profitability if large clients discontinue using our services. There is a significant cost associated with maintaining and enhancing our order management systems. If a significant share of these clients were to discontinue use of our systems, we will continue to incur the costs associated with supporting our remaining clients, having a negative impact on our profitability. We might not be able to accommodate increased levels of trading activity and keep current with market data requirements. There could be an increase in transaction levels driven by market volumes, regulatory changes and industry changes. This increase could jeopardize the ability of our hardware and software to accommodate the increase in the total number of trades, the number of items handled during a given period of time and latency, the time required to deal with a single order. The inability to accommodate these increased transaction levels could result in significant error positions and settlement breaks potentially causing losses. Live market data is an integral part of certain product offerings of our Transaction Services Division and our OMS Division. The increase in market volumes could impact our ability to keep current with market data requirements which could, in-turn, impact the functionality of certain products causing us to lose clients and revenues. Regulation NMS and MiFID could significantly alter the market structure and the volume of trading of equities in the U.S. and in the EU which would adversely affect us if we are unable to provide competitive performance, functionality, and capacity. As a result of the implementation of Regulation NMS, the order flow of our Transaction Services Division might migrate to competitive trading platforms as traders seek to exploit changes in market microstructure with a resulting decline in revenue. Additionally, trading volumes and market data volumes might substantially increase at the NYSE and other markets and, unless our Transaction Services and OMS Divisions are able to implement sufficient systems upgrades and product enhancements, we might be unable to keep up with the increased market volumes and compliance obligations, in which case clients would trade elsewhere. In addition, unless our OMS Division is able to implement product enhancements to provide a Regulation NMS compliant solution to our clients, they may cancel subscriptions to our OMS products. In the European Union, MiFID is required to become national law in all EU countries by November 2007. MiFID is intended to create a unified European market, with common regulation regarding investments and trading in EU countries. Although the impact of these regulations on NYFIX is uncertain, they could result in increased competition, increased administrative costs and exposure to enforcement actions. -29- Our business could be adversely affected by our inability to attract and retain talented employees, including senior management professionals and software developers. Our business operations require highly specialized knowledge of the financial industry and of technological innovation as it applies to the financial industry. If we were unable to hire or retain the services of talented financial and software professionals, we would be at a competitive disadvantage. If Warburg Pincus converts the Series B Preferred Stock and exercises the Warrant held by it, it could potentially acquire effective voting control of us. Its interests may or may not be aligned with those of our other stockholders. If Warburg Pincus converts the Series B Preferred Stock and exercises the Warrant held by it, Warburg Pincus would own approximately 35% of our then outstanding common stock (which includes 1,207,400 shares of common stock, representing approximately 3.4% of the outstanding common stock, purchased by Warburg Pincus on May 9, 2007). Warburg Pincus is permitted under the Preferred Stock - Securities Purchase Agreement to acquire up to 40% of our outstanding common stock, on an as-if-converted basis through September 2011, after which it may acquire up to 45%. Such conversion and exercise in full may enable Warburg Pincus to effectively acquire the ability to elect all of our directors and determine the outcome of other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. This ability may enable Warburg Pincus to influence management and may discourage a third party from making a significant equity investment in us or seeking to acquire us. Warburg Pincus’ interests may differ from those of our other stockholders in material respects. Additionally, Warburg Pincus may determine that the disposition of some or all of its interests in us would be beneficial to it at a time when such disposition could be detrimental to us or our other stockholders. RISKS RELATING TO RESTATEMENTS AND RELATED PENDING LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Our internal review of our historical financial statements, the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, investigations by the SEC and related events have had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on us. By letter dated October 28, 2004, the Division of Enforcement of the SEC informed us that it was conducting an informal investigation related to our stock options granted. On February 25, 2005, we filed a current report on Form 8-K, which indicated that we believed that the matter was a formal inquiry. We are cooperating with the SEC with respect to this matter. We believe we are substantially complete with regard to producing all documents responsive to document requests and subpoenas. The SEC staff has taken testimony from current and/or former officers and/or directors, as well as from third parties, including our former independent registered public accounting firm. We could be subject to substantial penalties, fines or regulatory sanctions or claims by our former officers, directors or employees for indemnification of costs they may incur in connection with the SEC investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and other related matters described below, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are unable to predict the outcome of the SEC investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and whether or not the other restatement items will lead to additional investigations or inquiries. In connection with the restatement of our 1999 through 2002 consolidated financial statements relating to our accounting for the losses incurred by NYFIX Millennium filed in May 2004, the Division of Enforcement of the SEC informed us by letter dated July 14, 2004 that it was conducting an informal inquiry. On January 25, 2005, we filed a current report on Form 8-K, which indicated that we believed that the matter was a formal inquiry. We have cooperated with the SEC, producing documents in response to document requests and subpoenas and making employees available for interviews and testimony. The SEC staff has taken testimony from current and/or former officers and/or directors, as well as from third parties, including our former independent registered public accounting firm. In March 2006, we announced that the SEC Enforcement Staff had advised that it is recommending that the SEC close its inquiry into this matter without any action being taken against the Company or any individual. As a result of the Staff’s recommendation, which is subject to a formal approval process within the SEC, we have not been required to produce any more documents or provide additional witnesses for testimony in connection with this inquiry. -30- The consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for 2005 restated the results of operations for fiscal years 2004 and 2003 and, in Note 19 to that report, the results for interim periods in 2004 and the quarter ended March 31, 2005 to reflect changes in our accounting for stock options granted, acquisitions and investments, revenue recognition, income taxes and treasury stock issuances. Costs incurred for professional fees for outside accountants and lawyers to restate and re-audit our financial results and to produce and analyze document requests and to address related litigation have been significant and are expected to be significant into 2007. We are the subject of several legal and administrative proceedings relating to our granting of stock options to certain of our employees, officers and directors. We are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and can give no assurances that the outcome of these proceedings will not have a material impact on us or that other proceedings will not be initiated. In May 2006, we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York. The subpoena sought documents relating to our granting of stock options. With the agreement of the Assistant U.S. Attorney, we are responding to the subpoena by producing the documents we produce to the staff of the Division of Enforcement of the SEC. The U.S. Attorney has also conducted interviews with at least one of our current employees and two of our former employees (one of whom is a former officer) and with at least one employee of our former independent registered public accounting firm. Since June, 2006, we have been served as a nominal defendant in several shareholder derivative actions against us and several of our current and former officers and directors, asserting, among other things, claims under the federal securities laws, corporate waste, fraud and breach of fiduciary duty against all the individual defendants based on claimed backdating of stock option grants to these individuals between 1997 and 2003. In addition, certain stockholders have made formal inquiries regarding alleged violations of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act based on the same facts alleged in these actions. In 2006 and 2007, we have had communications with the United States Internal Revenue Service and the United Kingdom HM Revenue & Customs relating to our potential liability for income and payroll tax withholdings on certain historical stock option grants and exercises. We are unable to predict the outcome of any of these matters at this time and can give no assurances that the outcome of any of these proceedings will not have a material impact on us or that there will not be other proceedings arising from this restatement or the matters described in this report on Form 10-K. Many members of our senior management team and our Board of Directors have been and will be required to devote a significant amount of time on matters relating to the continuing SEC investigation, the restatement, our outstanding periodic reports, remedial efforts and related litigation. Our senior management team and our Board of Directors have devoted a significant amount of time on matters relating to the continuing SEC investigation into our historical stock option grants, the 2005 Restatement, curing the delinquency related to our periodic reports, remedial efforts and related litigation. In addition, certain members of our Board of Directors and our General Counsel are named defendants in one or more legal proceedings asserting claims of federal securities law violations related to the SEC investigation into our historical stock option granting practices. Defending these actions will require significant time and attention from members of our current senior management team and our Board of Directors. If our senior management is unable to devote a significant amount of time in the future developing and attaining our strategic business initiatives and running ongoing business operations, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -31- We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis. In connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we identified material weaknesses including those that may exist or hereafter arise or be identified, which could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. Additional work remains to be done to address the identified material weaknesses. We may be required to hire additional employees and consultants to address these weaknesses, and may experience higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. If we are unable to address these weaknesses effectively, or if other material weaknesses develop, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plans, or fail to update our internal control as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into an in-control environment, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, securities litigation, events of default under our long-term debt agreements and the terms of our agreement with the holder of our preferred stock, and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the valuation of our common stock. Such weaknesses may impact our ability to list on a national securities exchange, such as Nasdaq. Furthermore, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. We could face additional litigation exposure and a greater likelihood of an SEC enforcement action if further restatements were to occur or other accounting-related problems emerge. In addition, any future restatements or other accounting-related problems may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our stock is currently delisted from the Nasdaq National Market quotation system and the public float and trading volume of our common stock is limited. As a result of the delisting of our stock from Nasdaq on November 1, 2005, our common stock is currently traded in the OTC securities market with real-time quotes available on the Pink Sheets electronic quotation service. Stockholders may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotes and execute trades in the OTC market and the limited public float of our stock could result in increased volatility particularly if larger share trades are executed. In addition, if the market price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock could be considered a penny stock and become subject to the regulations applicable to penny stocks. Our stock price may decline if current and former employees exercise outstanding options and sell the underlying shares in the market. As described in more detail in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2006, there are approximately 3.5 million exercisable options outstanding. As of June 30, 2007, included in the exercisable options outstanding are 1,030,150 shares, underlying options, for which we had been notified of intents to exercise that were not deemed probable of expiring before the Company could issue shares. We have generally been unable to honor Pending Exercises since the third quarter of 2005 as a result of not being current with our periodic filing requirements and therefore not having an effective S-8 registration statement for the underlying shares. We have extended the period these options can be exercised until such time that we are current with our periodic filing requirements and have an effective S-8 registration statement for the underlying shares. If a large number of the shares underlying these options were to be sold in the market, together with shares underlying options to existing employees, the price of our stock may decline. -32- RISKS RELATING TO THE BROKER-DEALER INDUSTRY REGULATIONS The securities brokerage industry is subject to extensive government and other regulation. If NYFIX Millennium, NTS, NYFIX Clearing or NYFIX International fail to comply with these regulations, they may be subject to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations. Changes in such regulations could increase our compliance costs. We are subject to extensive government and other regulation. NYFIX Millennium, NTS and NYFIX Clearing are subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws and NYFIX International is subject to extensive regulation under UK laws. In addition to these laws, we must comply with rules of the SEC, including Regulation ATS for NYFIX Millennium, and the NASD, FSA, various stock exchanges, state securities commissions and other regulatory bodies charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors participating in these markets. As regulated subsidiaries, NYFIX Millennium, NTS, NYFIX Clearing and NYFIX International are subject to numerous regulations covering the securities business, including: · marketing practices; · capital structure, including net capital requirements; · record keeping; and · conduct of directors, officers and employees. The ability of NYFIX Millennium, NTS, NYFIX Clearing and NYFIX International to comply with such regulations depends largely on the establishment and maintenance of an effective compliance system, as well as their ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. If a claim of noncompliance is made by a regulatory authority, the efforts of the management of NYFIX Millennium, NTS, NYFIX Clearing or NYFIX International could be diverted to responding to such claim and they could be subject to a range of possible consequences, including the payment of fines, civil lawsuits and the suspension of one or more portions of their business. In addition, their mode of operation and profitability may be directly affected by: · additional legislation; · changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the NASD, the FSA, the various stock exchanges or other SROs; or · changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules. If we are unable to defend against such claims, we may be subject to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations, including censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension, and/or disqualification of our officers, directors or employees. The fines, if material, could have an adverse effect on our earnings because it could greatly increase our capital requirements. If any of our employees were suspended or disqualified, we may be unable to meet the needs of our clients or to solicit new business. This could also have an adverse effect on our earnings. Furthermore, any such penalties could materially harm our reputation in the industry, which could have a long-term effect on our financial growth. In addition, NYFIX Millennium’s status as a recognized ATS requires that its trade execution and communication systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volumes. If any of our systems become disabled, the ability to process trades and handle peak trading volumes will be compromised. The status of NYFIX Millennium, NTS and NYFIX Clearing as SEC registered broker-dealers and NASD members and NYFIX International as an FSA registered entity are conditioned, in part, on their ability to process and settle trades. -33- In addition, our standing with various bodies that regulate us may be impacted if we are charged by the SEC and/or U.S. Attorney in the investigation into our historical stock option grants. Our failure to meet Net Capital Rule Requirements, or adverse changes in the Net Capital rules, could restrict our business operations. The SEC, the FSA and the NASD, as well as other regulatory agencies and securities exchanges within and outside the U.S., have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by regulated broker-dealers. These rules include the SEC’s net capital rule (15c3-1), to which our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject, and the financial resources requirements of the FSA to which our UK registrant is subject. The failure by one of these subsidiaries to maintain its required regulatory net capital or financial resources (collectively, “Net Capital”) may lead to suspension or revocation of its registration by the SEC and its suspension or expulsion by the NASD and other U.S. or international regulatory bodies, and ultimately could require its liquidation. In addition, a change in the Net Capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against the Net Capital of one of our regulated subsidiaries could limit its operations, particularly those that are capital intensive. A large charge to the Net Capital of one of these subsidiaries could result from an error or other operational failure or a failure of a client to complete one or more transactions, including as a result of that client’s insolvency or other credit difficulties, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to furnish the affected subsidiary with the requisite additional capital to offset that charge. The Net Capital rules could also restrict our ability to withdraw capital from our regulated subsidiaries, which could limit our ability to pay cash dividends if we decided to pay dividends, repay debt or repurchase shares of our outstanding stock. A significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against the Net Capital of any of our regulated subsidiaries could adversely affect our financial position. In addition, as a member of DTCC, our NYFIX Clearing subsidiary is required to maintain excess Net Capital of $10 million. Our NYFIX Clearing subsidiary had excess Net Capital in excess of $25 million at May 31, 2007. At December 31, 2006, our regulated subsidiaries had aggregate Net Capital requirements (including the DTCC requirement for NYFIX Clearing) of $11.3 million. In 2006, we provided an aggregate additional capital of $12.5 million in the form of additional capital contributions to our broker-dealer subsidiaries. If our regulated subsidiaries fall below their minimum regulatory Net Capital and minimum excess regulatory Net Capital requirements, their operations would be restricted by their respective regulatory agencies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -34- Item 