Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. We have been unprofitable in the past and we may not be profitable in the future. If we are required to record an additional impairment charge relating to our goodwill because we are not profitable, and such charge is sufficiently large, the impact on our consolidated financial statements could be material. We have incurred significant losses over the past several years. If this trend continues, we may be required to record an additional impairment charge relating to our goodwill. If the impairment charge is sufficiently large, the impact on our consolidated financial statements could be material. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis. In connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we identified material weaknesses which could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. Although we have made substantial progress and have declared a number of the material weaknesses existing as of December 31, 2006 remediated, additional work remains. We may be required to hire additional employees and consultants to address these weaknesses, and may experience higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses in order to implement the necessary changes. If we are unable to address these weaknesses effectively, or if other material weaknesses develop, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plans, or fail to update our internal control as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into an in-control environment, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, securities litigation, events of default under our long-term debt agreements and the terms of our agreement with the holder of our preferred stock, and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the valuation of our common stock. Furthermore, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. We could face additional litigation exposure and a greater likelihood of an SEC enforcement action if future financial restatements were to occur or other accounting-related problems emerge. In addition, any future restatements or other accounting-related problems may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are highly reliant upon our computer and other electronic systems. A significant power or telecommunications failure, computer virus, software defects, or human error in response to such challenges could cause us and our clients to lose revenue and subject us to liability for client losses. A slowdown in the operations of such services could also materially adversely affect our business and our clients. Our services depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant amounts of data and to receive and process trade orders electronically. Our business is based upon our ability to perform such functions rapidly. Our systems and data centers could fail or slow down significantly due to a number of factors, including the volume of orders entered and executed, human error, software defects and power failures, caused by a variety of factors, or outages, caused by high demand placed on the infrastructures of the utilities we use in the Metro New York area. Since it is fairly common for multiple carriers to share the same physical infrastructure such as central offices, telephone poles and below-ground conduit, instances like major cable cuts or regional natural disasters could also cause such power or telecommunications failures. Due to the complexity of these electrical systems, errors or failures could occur which render an entire site to be unusable. - 16 - We constantly monitor system loads and performances and upgrade our systems to the extent we determine to be appropriate to handle estimated increases in power consumption. However, we may not be able to accurately predict future demand. To mitigate the impact of power failures, we maintain critical data center facilities at two separate locations in the Metro New York area. Although these data centers are located in the same geographical area, they are serviced via different power companies (i.e. ConEdison and Public Service Electric & Gas). In the event of a power outage at any of our data centers, we use uninterruptible power supplies (“UPS”) to provide limited battery backup for critical systems. We also use diesel-powered generators to backup the UPSs provided by our data center co-location facility. In the event of loss of power or telecommunications services at either of these locations, we believe there are sufficient backup facilities in place to give us reasonable time to access, or switch over to, our redundant data center. It is possible that multiple telecommunications vendors could be impacted so severely that the multi-vendor and multi-site strategy would not ensure communications services to our clients. A computer virus infiltrating our systems through connections to client systems, emails received by us or connectivity to the Internet could also negatively impact the functioning of our computer systems. Although to date we have not had any incidence of a virus fully penetrating our protective layers and infiltrating our production systems, we continue to review our protective layers and safeguards as our systems are susceptible to the growing number of potential viruses. Any significant degradation or failure of one or more of our networks could cause our clients to suffer delays in transaction processing, which could damage our reputation, increase our service costs, result in error positions and settlement breaks (potentially causing losses) or cause us to lose clients and revenues. We depend on a limited number of network equipment, software and telecommunications suppliers and do not have supply contracts. Our inability to obtain necessary network equipment, technical support or other telecommunications services or being forced to pay higher prices for such equipment, support or services could materially adversely affect our business. Some key components we use in our networks are available only from a limited number of equipment and software suppliers. The services required for operation of our networks are also provided to us by a limited number of telecommunication services providers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with the suppliers of the key components of our networks or any other limited source vendors, and we purchase data network equipment on a purchase order basis. We also have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of the services required to maintain such networks or even the continued performance of such services. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of equipment, required technical support or services, or to develop alternate sources as required in the future, our ability to deploy equipment in and operate our networks could be delayed or reduced, or we may be forced to pay higher prices for our network components or related services. Delays or reductions in supplies or services could lead to slowdowns or failures of our networks. We are subject to rapid changes in technology which could impact our profitability and our ability to compete effectively. Due to the high demand for technology-based services in the securities industry, we are subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. Also, customer demands become greater and more sophisticated as the dissemination of information to clients increases. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner and to adapt to the technological advancements and changing standards, we will be less able to compete effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do to fund such technological advancements. Similarly, the development of technology-based services is a complex and time-consuming process which may not always yield marketable products and services. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products could negatively impact our revenues. Our clients may develop in-house networks or use network providers other than NYFIX and divert part or all of their data communications from our networks to their networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our clients may develop in-house networks or use other network providers because such clients want to connect to destinations not part of our NYFIX Marketplace Service or to only certain, but not all, destinations covered by our NYFIX Marketplace Service. As a result of any of these events, we could experience decreased revenues. - 17 - A decline in subscription and maintenance revenue, our largest source of revenue, or transaction revenue, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Revenue from subscription and maintenance is currently our largest source of revenue. Subscription and maintenance revenue rates are fixed based on a contractual period of time, typically one to three years, and are not affected by trading volumes. However, trading volumes do affect the revenues of our clients and this could affect their future purchases of our technology and services. Pricing pressures due to competition, failure to sign new agreements with clients because of reductions in their new technology spending, and consolidation in the financial sector could affect our revenues and profitability. Our costs associated with supporting the subscription and maintenance agreements are generally fixed and thus a loss of revenue would impact profitability. Transaction revenue has been a growing component of our revenue. There is no assurance, however, that we can continue to grow transaction revenue. As up-front investment in system capacity and functionality is required, a portion of our costs to support transaction revenue are fixed. Accordingly, a decline in revenue would directly impact our profitability. Several underlying risk factors affect the potential growth of transaction revenue: · competitive pressure created by a proliferation of electronic execution competitors; · potential changes in the U.S. market structure; · new regulatory requirements or a failure to comply with existing regulatory requirements; · consolidation of broker-dealers or a decline in the number of hedge funds; and · increased client demands for bandwidth and speed, requiring reinvestment in hardware and software. We are exposed to clearance, settlement and credit risks that could materially adversely affect our business. In the event that trades do not properly settle, our broker-dealer subsidiaries may have to finance our clients’ positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults of our clients. Although we regularly review credit exposure, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that may be difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect NYFIX. In addition, one of our U.S. subsidiaries, NYFIX Securities, is subject to a maximum intra-day credit limit, or debit cap, imposed by the DTCC. In addition, to be able to clear trades, NYFIX Securities may require added commitments from unaffiliated institutions to provide funding during a settlement day (“intra-day funding”). An inability to maintain or raise its maximum limits or to obtain and maintain third-party commitments to support intra-day funding could have an adverse impact on NYFIX Securities’ ability to maintain or expand its business. We are exposed to credit risk from third parties that owe us money, securities, or other obligations, including our customers and trading counterparties. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Volatile securities markets, credit markets and regulatory changes increase our exposure to credit risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our ability to maintain or expand our brokerage business could be adversely impacted if we do not continue to have third-party assistance to access exchanges and other important trading venues. Our Transaction Services Division provides execution services with the assistance of third parties who provide us access to exchanges and other important trading venues in the execution business, such as ECNs and ATSs. If such third parties, exchanges or regulators determine that our Transaction Services Division must discontinue such indirect access, this could have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain or expand this business. - 18 - Our clients may not continue to do business with our broker-dealer subsidiaries if we are unable to maintain certain levels of capital, fail to file our periodic reports in a timely fashion or are the subject of charges resulting from the SEC and U.S. Attorney’s Office investigations, and we may not be able to expand into other securities businesses without increased capital. Certain clients have stringent counterparty credit requirements that we may not satisfy if our capital falls below certain levels. If we are unable to satisfy these requirements, the result may be that clients limit the amount of transactions they enter into with us, which in turn would reduce our revenues. In addition, our ability to expand our Transaction Services Division’s business into new products and services may be limited by the amount of capital we have on hand. Failure to remain current with our periodic filing requirements might deter clients of our Transaction Services Division from continuing to do business with us. In addition, our clients may limit the amount of transactions they enter into with us if we become the subject of charges resulting from new SEC or U.S. Attorney’s Office investigations and/or if we are charged by the SEC and/or the U.S. Attorney’s Office in their investigation into our historical stock option grants. See Item 3. Legal proceedings Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are at risk if their clients default on their trading obligations. Under applicable regulatory requirements, our broker-dealers are required to deliver or receive securities for their clients if their clients default on their trading obligations by failing to deliver cash or securities on the date when a trade settles. The broker-dealer can pursue its client for losses the broker-dealer sustains as a result of delivering the required cash or securities. Our broker-dealers attempt to manage the risks associated with client trading defaults by conducting a number of background checks on their clients, including financial history, credit, regulatory and legal checks. The broker-dealer decides which background checks to undertake based on the relationship with the client and the nature and extent of the business that the client has with the broker-dealer. In addition, our broker-dealers monitor trades to check that counterparties know and confirm trades before settlement date to minimize market risk to which our broker-dealers can be exposed between trade date and settlement date. Our membership in the stock loan program of the OCC mitigates our risk with respect to our matched-book stock borrow/stock loan business. The OCC guarantees the required mark-to-market payments related to the fluctuation in market value of the collateral underlying stock borrow/stock loan transactions processed by its members and is considered the principal counterparty to each transaction. At December 31, 2007, approximately 55% of our stock borrow/stock loan transactions outstanding were processed through the OCC. Despite these measures to reduce the risk to our broker-dealers from trading defaults by their clients, there can be no assurance that our broker-dealers will avoid such risks entirely or that if losses do occur they will not have a material impact on the financial condition or reputation of the affected broker-dealer. The discontinuation of our Fusion OMS business could negatively impact revenues we generate on other products and services. Many of our Fusion OMS clients use our other product and service offerings, including our execution services. If these clients discontinue the use of these services after the transition off the Fusion OMS, our revenues could be negatively impacted. We might not be able to accommodate increased levels of trading activity and keep current with market data requirements. There could be an increase in transaction levels driven by market volumes, regulatory changes and industry changes. This increase could jeopardize the ability of our hardware and software to accommodate the increase in the total number of trades, the number of items handled during a given period of time and latency, and the time required to deal with a single order. The inability to accommodate these increased transaction levels could result in significant error positions and settlement breaks potentially causing losses. Live market data is an integral part of certain product offerings of our Transaction Services Division and our OMS Division. The increase in market volumes could impact our ability to keep current with market data requirements which could, in-turn, impact the functionality of certain products causing us to lose clients and revenues. Our business could be adversely affected by our inability to attract and retain talented employees, including senior management professionals and software developers. Our business operations require highly specialized knowledge of the financial industry and of technological innovation as it applies to the financial industry. If we were unable to hire or retain the services of talented senior management financial and software professionals, we would be at a competitive disadvantage. - 19 - Warburg Pincus Private Equity IX LP (“Warburg Pincus”) owns a significant portion of our voting securities and its interests may not be aligned with those of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, Warburg Pincus owned approximately 34% of our outstanding voting securities and, if Warburg Pincus had exercised the Warrant held by it as of that date, it would have owned approximately 37% of the voting power of our then outstanding common stock. In addition, Warburg Pincus is entitled to appoint two members of our Board of Directors. As a result of its stock holdings, Warburg Pincus may now have, or may acquire upon exercise of its Warrant, the ability to elect all of our directors and determine the outcome of other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. This ability may enable Warburg Pincus to influence management and may discourage a third party from making a significant equity investment in us or seeking to acquire us. Warburg Pincus’ interests may differ from those of our other stockholders in material respects. Additionally, Warburg Pincus may determine that the disposition of some or all of its interests in us would be beneficial to it at a time when such disposition could be detrimental to us or our other holders. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. We may acquire complimentary products, technologies or businesses. In the event of future acquisitions, we could: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • reduce significantly our cash and investments; • incur debt or assume liabilities; • incur significant impairment charges related to the write-off of goodwill and purchased intangible assets; • incur significant amortization expenses related to purchased intangible assets; or • incur large and immediate write-offs for in-process research and development and stock-based compensation. Our integration of any acquired products, technologies or businesses will also involve numerous risks, including: • problems and unanticipated costs associated with combining the purchased products, technologies or businesses; • diversion of management's attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations; and • integration of internal controls and financial systems. We may be unable to successfully integrate any products, technologies, businesses or personnel that we might acquire in the future without significant costs or disruption to our business. We may face risks associated with our international expansion that could impair our ability to grow our international revenues. We intend to expand our sales in international markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels. In addition, we may not be able to develop international market demand for our products, which could impair our ability to grow our revenues. We have limited experience marketing, distributing and supporting our products internationally and, to do so, we expect that we will need to develop versions of our products that comply with local standards. Furthermore, international operations are subject to other inherent risks, including: • reliance on distributors and resellers; • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer collection cycles; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • the impact of differing technical standards outside the United States; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • changes in regulatory requirements and currency exchange rates; • certification requirements; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. Investigations by the SEC and related events have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on us. On October 28, 2004, we received a request from the SEC relating to our historical stock option granting practices and related matters. On February 15, 2005, the SEC obtained a formal order of investigation, and in April 2005 issued a subpoena to NYFIX. In March and April 2005, the SEC issued subpoenas to a current director and to former officers and directors. The SEC has taken testimony from one current director, at least three former directors and at least one of our former employees, as well as from third parties, including our former independent registered public accounting firm. The SEC has also issued subpoenas to at least two current and former directors from whom it has not asked for testimony. We produced more than 800,000 pages of documents to the SEC, and believe that we have completed producing responsive documents. - 20 - In connection with the restatement of our 1999 through 2002 consolidated financial statements relating to our accounting for the losses incurred by NYFIX Millennium filed in May 2004, the Division of Enforcement of the SEC informed us by letter dated July 14, 2004 that it was conducting an informal inquiry. On January 25, 2005, we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, which indicated that we believed that the matter was a formal inquiry. We have cooperated with the SEC, producing documents in response to document requests and subpoenas and making employees available for interviews and testimony. The SEC staff has taken testimony from current and former officers and directors, as well as from third parties, including our former independent registered public accounting firm. In March 2006, we announced that the SEC Enforcement Staff had advised us that it is recommending that the SEC close its inquiry into this matter without any action being taken against us or any individual. The Staff’s recommendation is subject to a formal approval process within the SEC. Such formal approval is still pending. We could be subject to substantial penalties, fines or regulatory sanctions by the SEC, as well as claims by our former officers, directors or employees for indemnification of costs they may incur in connection with the SEC investigations, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are unable to predict the outcome of the SEC investigations into our historical stock option granting practices and whether or not the other restatement items will lead to additional investigations or inquiries. We are the subject of several legal and administrative proceedings relating to our granting of stock options to certain of our employees, officers and directors. We are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and can give no assurances that the outcome of these proceedings will not have a material impact on us or that other proceedings will not be initiated. Since June 2006, we have been served as a nominal defendant in several shareholder derivative actions against us and several of our current and former officers and directors, asserting, among other things, claims under the federal securities laws, corporate waste, fraud and breach of fiduciary duty against all the individual defendants based on claimed backdating of stock option grants to these individuals between 1997 and 2003. In addition, certain stockholders have made formal inquiries regarding alleged violations of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act based on the same facts alleged in these actions. We are unable to predict the outcome of any of these matters at this time and can give no assurances that the outcome of any of these proceedings will not have a material impact on us or that there will not be other proceedings arising from our historical stock option granting practices and related matters and/or our previous financial restatements or the matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The securities brokerage industry is subject to extensive government and other regulation. If NYFIX Millennium, NYFIX Securities or NYFIX International fail to comply with these regulations, they may be subject to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations. Changes in such regulations could increase our compliance costs. NYFIX Millennium and NYFIX Securities are subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws and NYFIX International is subject to extensive regulation under U.K. laws. In addition to these laws, we must comply with rules of the SEC, including Regulation ATS for NYFIX Millennium, and FINRA, FSA, various stock exchanges, state securities commissions and other regulatory bodies charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors participating in these markets. As regulated subsidiaries, NYFIX Millennium, NYFIX Securities and NYFIX International are subject to numerous regulations covering the securities business, including: · marketing practices; · systems and controls; · capital structure, including net capital requirements; · record keeping; · maintenance of a fair and orderly market; · the prevention of market abuse and money laundering; · conflicts of interest; and · conduct of directors, officers and employees. - 21 - The ability of NYFIX Millennium, NYFIX Securities and NYFIX International to comply with such regulations depends largely on the establishment and maintenance of an effective compliance system, as well as their ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. If a claim of noncompliance is made by a regulatory authority, the efforts of the management of NYFIX Millennium, NYFIX Securities or NYFIX International could be diverted to responding to such claim and they could be subject to a range of possible consequences, including the payment of fines, civil lawsuits and the suspension of one or more portions of their business. In addition, their mode of operation and profitability may be directly affected by: · additional legislation; · changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, FINRA, the FSA, the various stock exchanges or other SROs; · the introduction of European directives; or · changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules. If we are unable to defend against such claims, we may be subject to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations, including censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension, and/or disqualification of our officers, directors or employees, or criminal prosecution. The fines, if material, could have an adverse effect on our earnings because it could greatly increase our capital requirements. If any of our employees were suspended or disqualified, we may be unable to meet the needs of our clients or to solicit new business. This could also have an adverse effect on our earnings. Furthermore, any such penalties could materially harm our reputation in the industry, which could have a long-term effect on our financial growth. In addition, NYFIX Millennium’s status as a recognized ATS requires that its trade execution and communication systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volumes. If any of our systems become disabled, the ability to process trades and handle peak trading volumes will be compromised. The status of NYFIX Millennium and NYFIX Securities as SEC registered broker-dealers and FINRA members and NYFIX International as an FSA registered entity are conditioned, in part, on their ability to process and settle trades. Regulations applicable to NYFIX International’s operation of Euro Millennium require that it maintain a fair and orderly market and take steps to prevent against financial crime, e.g. market abuse and money laundering. Failure to do so would bring into dispute the ability of NYFIX International to fulfill its regulatory requirements and maintain confidence in the markets. The actual occurrence of market abuse or money laundering could result in criminal prosecution and imprisonment of relevant individuals. In addition, our standing with various bodies that regulate us may be impacted if we are charged by the SEC and/or the U.S. Attorney’s Office in their investigation into our historical stock option grants. Our failure to meet applicable net capital requirements, or adverse changes in the current net capital requirements, could restrict our business operations. The SEC, the FSA and FINRA, as well as other regulatory agencies and securities exchanges within and outside the United States, have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by regulated broker-dealers. - 22 - These rules include the SEC’s Net Capital Rule (15c3-1), to which our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject, and the financial resources requirements of the FSA to which our U.K. registrant is subject. The failure by one of these subsidiaries to maintain its required regulatory net capital or financial resources (collectively, “Net Capital”) may lead to suspension or revocation of its registration by the SEC and its suspension or expulsion by FINRA and other U.S. or international regulatory bodies, and ultimately could require its liquidation. In addition, a change in the Net Capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against the Net Capital of one of our regulated subsidiaries could limit its operations, particularly those that are capital intensive. A large charge to the Net Capital of one of these subsidiaries could result from an error or other operational failure or a failure of a client to complete one or more transactions, including as a result of that client’s insolvency or other credit difficulties, and we cannot be assured that we would be able to furnish the affected subsidiary with the requisite additional capital to offset that charge. The Net Capital rules could also restrict our ability to withdraw capital from our regulated subsidiaries, which could limit our ability to pay cash dividends if we decided to pay dividends, repay debt, repurchase shares of our outstanding stock or finance acquisitions. A significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against the Net Capital of any of our regulated subsidiaries could adversely affect our financial position. In addition, as a member of DTCC, NYFIX Securities is required to maintain excess Net Capital of $10 million. NYFIX Securities had excess Net Capital in excess of $27.3 million at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007, our regulated subsidiaries had aggregate Net Capital requirements (including the DTCC requirement for NYFIX Securities) of $11.4 million. If our regulated subsidiaries fall below their minimum regulatory Net Capital and minimum excess regulatory Net Capital requirements, their operations would be restricted by their respective regulatory agencies. In addition, the FSA may take into consideration the consolidated solvency of NYFIX as a whole when assessing the adequacy of NYFIX International’s financial resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. - 23 - Item 