ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our Consolidated Financial Statements that states that the Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and further states that the continuing losses and uncertainty regarding the ability to make the required minimum funding contributions to the pension plan, as well as the sinking fund payments on the Debentures and the principal and interest payments on the Notes and the Debentures, raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result, if the Company is unable to (i) obtain additional liquidity for working capital, (ii) make the required minimum funding contributions to the pension plan and/or (iii) make the required principal and interest payments on the Notes and Debentures, there would be a significant adverse impact on the financial position and the operating results of the Company. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED OPERATING LOSSES FOR THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS, AND THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO INCREASE OUR REVENUE SUFFICIENTLY TO GENERATE THE CASH REQUIRED TO FUND OUR CURRENT OPERATIONS The Company has incurred operating losses for the past several years. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company incurred losses from continuing operations of $2.5 million and $1.2 million, respectively. The year ended December 31, 2013 includes a $1.1 million gain on a warrant valuation adjustment. 2012 includes a $4.0 million gain on a warrant valuation adjustment, a $0.4 million additional restructuring charge and a $0.1 million gain on debt extinguishment. The Company is dependent upon future operating performance to generate sufficient cash flows in order to continue to run its businesses. Future operating performance is dependent on general economic conditions, as well as financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We have experienced a decline in our sales and lease and maintenance bases for the past several years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to generate the cash required to fund our current operations. 4 Table of Contents THE CURRENT GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS HAS NEGATIVELY IMPACTED OUR BUSINESS AND HAS IMPAIRED OUR ABILITY TO ACCESS CREDIT MARKETS AND FINANCE OUR OPERATIONS, WHICH MAY CONTINUE TO ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS The continuing global economic crisis has adversely affected our customers, suppliers and other businesses such as ours. As a result, it has had a variety of negative effects on the Company such as reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable and/or write-offs of accounts receivable. This economic crisis has also impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations and could otherwise have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. NON-PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST ON OUTSTANDING NOTES AND DEBENTURES HAS RESULTED IN EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND MAY CONTINUE TO NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BALANCE SHEET The Company has $1.1 million of 8¼% Limited convertible senior subordinated notes due 2012 (the “Notes”) which are no longer convertible into common shares and which matured as of March 1, 2012; interest was payable semi-annually. As part of the Company’s restructuring plan, the Company offered the holders of the Notes the right to receive $225, without accrued interest, plus 10 shares of the Company’s Common Stock for each $1,000 Note exchanged. The offer expired on October 31, 2011, but the Company continues to consider further exchanges of the Notes on the same terms as previously offered. $9.0 million of the original $10.1 million of principal amount of the Notes have been exchanged, leaving $1.1 million outstanding. Based on the payment schedule prior to the offer to exchange, the Company had not remitted the March 1, 2010 and 2011 and September 1, 2010 and 2011 semi-annual interest payments of $418,000 each and the March 1, 2012 semi-annual interest and principal payment of $1.4 million to the trustee. The non-payments constituted an event of default under the Indenture governing the Notes. The trustee, by notice to the Company, or the holders of 25% of the principal amount of the Notes outstanding, by notice to the Company and the trustee, may declare the outstanding principal plus interest due and payable immediately. During the continuation of any event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default under any agreement under which Senior Indebtedness is issued, if the effect of such default is to cause or permit the holder of Senior Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity, no payment of principal, premium or interest shall be made on the Notes unless and until such default shall have been remedied, if written notice of such default has been given to the trustee by the Company or the holder of Senior Indebtedness. If the holder of Senior Indebtedness accelerates the due date at any time, then no payment may be made until the default is cured or waived. The Notes are subordinate to all Senior Indebtedness of the Company. At December 31, 2013, the total amount outstanding under the Notes is classified as Current portion of long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company has $334,000 of 9½% Subordinated debentures due 2012 (the “Debentures”) which matured on December 1, 2012; interest was payable semi-annually. As part of the Company’s restructuring plan, the Company offered the holders of the Debentures the right to receive $100, without accrued interest, for each $1,000 Debenture exchanged. The offer expired on October 31, 2011, but the Company continues to consider further exchanges of the Debentures on the same terms as previously offered. $723,000 of the original $1.1 million principal amount of the Debentures have been exchanged, leaving $334,000 outstanding. Based on the payment schedule prior to the offer to exchange, the Company had not remitted the December 1, 2009, 2010 and 2011 sinking fund payments of $106,000 each, the June 1, 2010, 2011 and 2012 and the December 1, 2010 and 2011 semi-annual interest payments of $50,000 each and the December 1, 2012 semi-annual interest and principal payment of $790,000 to the trustee. The non-payments constituted an event of default under the Indenture governing the Debentures. The trustee, by notice to the Company, or the holders of 25% of the principal amount of the Debentures outstanding, by notice to the Company and the trustee, may declare the outstanding principal plus interest due and payable immediately. During the continuation of any event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default under any agreement under which Senior Indebtedness is issued, if the effect of such default is to cause or permit the holder of Senior Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity, no payment (including any required sinking fund payments) of principal, premium or interest shall be made on the Debentures unless and until such default shall have been remedied, if written notice of such default has been given to the trustee by the Company or the holder of Senior Indebtedness. The failure to make the sinking fund and interest payments are events of default under the Credit Agreement since it involves indebtedness over $500,000. The Debentures are subordinate to all Senior Indebtedness of the Company. At December 31, 2013, the total amount outstanding under the Debentures is classified as Current portion of long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. WE HAVE RECEIVED WAIVERS, SUBJECT TO CERTAIN CONDITIONS, OF THE 2009, 2010 AND 2012 MINIMUM FUNDING STANDARDS FOR OUR DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN, WHICH IF WE FAIL TO FULFILL THE REQUIRED CONDITIONS FOR, MAY RESULT IN THE TERMINATION OF THE PLAN OR REQUIRE US TO MAKE THE UNPAID CONTRIBUTIONS In March 2010, 2011 and 2013, the Company submitted to the Internal Revenue Service requests for waivers of the 2009, 2010 and 2012 minimum funding standards for its defined benefit plan. The waiver requests were submitted as a result of the economic climate and the business hardship that the Company experienced. The 2009, 2010 and 2012 plan year waivers have been approved and granted subject to certain conditions, and deferred payment of $285,000, $559,000 and $871,000 of the minimum funding standard for the 2009, 2010 and 2012 plan years, respectively. If the Company does not fulfill the conditions of the waivers, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and the Internal Revenue Service have various enforcement remedies that can be implemented to protect the participant’s benefits, such as termination of the plan or a requirement that the Company make the unpaid contributions. In 2013, the Company made $669,000 of contributions to the plan. At this time, the Company is expecting to make its required contributions for 2014 and has already made $218,000 of such contributions; however there is no assurance that we will be able to make any or all of such remaining payments. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation has placed a lien on the Company’s assets in respect of amounts owed under the plan. 5 Table of Contents THE COMPANY HAS SIGNIFICANT LONG-TERM DEBT, WHICH COULD IMPAIR OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION As of December 31, 2013, the Company’s total long-term debt was $2.9 million. Of this amount, $2.5 million represented the current portion. We expect we may incur indebtedness in connection with new rental leases and working capital requirements. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our long-term debt service requirements or that we will be able to refinance indebtedness at maturity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” COMPETITORS MAY POSSESS SUPERIOR RESOURCES AND DELIVER MORE MARKETABLE PRODUCTS, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATION MARGINS Our digital displays compete with a number of competitors, both larger and smaller than us, and with products based on different forms of technology. In addition, there are several competitors whose current products utilize similar technology and who possess the resources to develop competitive and more sophisticated products in the future. Our success is, to some extent, dependent upon our ability to anticipate technological changes in the industry and to successfully identify, obtain, develop and market new products that satisfy evolving industry requirements. There can be no assurance that competitors will not market new products which may have perceived advantages over our products or which, because of pricing strategies, render the products currently sold by the Company less marketable or would otherwise adversely affect our operating margins. OUR SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT UPON OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN THE RENEWAL OF EXISTING LEASES OR ENTER INTO NEW LEASES AS OUR CURRENT LEASES EXPIRE, WHICH MAY NOT BE FEASABLE. THE INABILITY TO RENEW OR REPLACE OUR LEASES WOULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from the leasing of our digital displays, generally pursuant to leases that have an average term of one to five years. Consequently, our future success is, at a minimum, dependent on our ability to obtain the renewal of existing leases or to enter into new leases as existing leases expire. We also derive a significant percentage of our revenues from maintenance agreements relating to our digital display products. The average term of such agreements is generally one to five years. A portion of the maintenance agreements are cancelable upon 30 days notice. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the renewal of existing leases or maintenance agreements, obtaining replacement leases or realizing the value of assets currently under leases that are not renewed. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations.” WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND OTHER KEY PERSONNEL We believe that our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jean-Marc Allain, plays a significant role in the success of the Company and the loss of his services could have an adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to find a suitable replacement for Mr. Allain. The Company has an employment agreement with Mr. Allain that expires in 2015. The Company believes that in addition to Mr. Allain, there is a core group of executives that also plays a significant role in the success of the Company. 6 Table of Contents OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS SUBJECT US TO POTENTIAL FLUCTUATIONS IN EXCHANGE RATES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES DOLLAR AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES, AS WELL AS INTERNATIONAL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS, WHICH COULD IMPACT OUR PROFITABILITY Our financial condition, operating results and future growth could be significantly impacted by risks associated with our international activities, including specifically changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies and international tax rules. Because a significant portion of the Company’s business is done in Canada, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar could seriously impact our manufacturing and other costs, as well as overall profitability. The risks to our business related to fluctuations in currency exchange rates is further magnified by the current volatility in the currency markets that are characteristic of financial markets, and currency markets in particular. Compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls, anti-money laundering and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and may subject us to additional costs which may arise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. We have not implemented formal policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with all of these laws and regulations. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition or operating results. OUR RELIANCE UPON THIRD PARTY MANUFACTURERS IN CHINA COULD SUBJECT US TO POLITICAL AND LEGAL RISKS BEYOND OUR CONTROL Many components of our products are produced in China by third-party manufacturers. Our reliance on third-party Chinese manufacturers exposes us to risks that are not in our control, such as unanticipated cost increases or negative fluctuations in currency, which could negatively impact our results of operations and working capital. Any termination of or significant disruption in our relationship with our Chinese suppliers may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner. Given the state of the Chinese political system, we cannot guaranty that our agreements with our Chinese suppliers will remain enforceable pursuant to Chinese law. Furthermore, we cannot guaranty that all rights to payment or performance under our agreements with our Chinese manufacturing partners will be enforceable, and that all debts owing to us, whether in the form of cash or product, will be collectable. While we do not envision any adverse change to our international operations or suppliers, especially given the gradual move towards global integration by the Chinese government and financial markets, adverse changes to these operations, as a result of political, governmental, regulatory, economic, exchange rate, labor, logistical or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. SUPPLIERS MAY BE UNABLE OR UNWILLING TO FURNISH US WITH REQUIRED COMPONENTS, WHICH MAY DELAY OR REDUCE OUR PRODUCT SHIPMENTS AND NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS We design certain of our products to match components furnished by suppliers. If such suppliers were unable or unwilling to provide us with those components, we would have to contract with other suppliers to obtain replacement sources. In particular, we purchase most of the LEDs and LED module blocks used in our digital displays and lighting from three main suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. A change in suppliers of either LED module blocks or certain other components may result in engineering design changes, as well as delays in obtaining such replacement components. We believe that there are presently other qualified vendors of these components. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of certain components as required, or to develop alternative sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable time, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents EFFECT OF CERTAIN ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AND CONTROL BY EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains certain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock, thus making it less likely that a stockholder will receive a premium on any sale of shares of our Common Stock. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term, making it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board. Additionally, we are authorized to issue 500,000 shares of Preferred Stock, none of which are outstanding as of December 31, 2013. The Preferred Stock contains such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as may be fixed by our Board of Directors, which may adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of Common Stock or delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company, or discourage bids for the Common Stock at a premium over its market price or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. As of December 31, 2013, 8 stockholders who are executive officers and/or directors of the Company beneficially own approximately 4.3% of the Common Stock and 1 stockholder who is neither an officer nor director of the Company beneficially owns approximately 40.6% of the Common Stock. LIMITED TRADING VOLUME AND VOLATILITY OF THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK Our Common Stock is not widely held and the volume of trading has been relatively low and sporadic. Accordingly, the Common Stock is subject to increased price volatility and reduced liquidity. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market for the Common Stock will develop or be sustained if it does develop. The limited public float of our Common Stock could cause the market price for the Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets have experienced wide price and volume fluctuations in recent periods and these fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies affected. Any of these factors could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 