ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS HAS NEGATIVELY IMPACTED OUR BUSINESS The continuing global economic crisis has adversely affected our customers, suppliers and other businesses such as ours. As a result, it has had a variety of negative effects on the Company such as reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable and/or write-offs of accounts receivable. This economic crisis has also impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations and could otherwise have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 4 Table of Contents OPERATING LOSSES The Company has incurred operating losses for the past several years. During the years 2011 and 2010, the Company incurred losses from continuing operations of $1.2 million and $7.1 million, respectively. 2011 includes an $8.8 million gain on debt extinguishment, a $3.7 million charge for a warrant valuation adjustment and a $0.2 million additional restructuring charge. 2010 includes a $1.1 million restructuring charge and a $0.5 million charge to write-off engineering software. The Company is dependent upon future operating performance to generate sufficient cash flows in order to continue to run its businesses. Future operating performance is dependent on general economic conditions, as well as financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we have experienced a decline in our sales and lease and maintenance bases. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to generate the cash required to fund our current operations. DEFAULT ON INDEBTEDNESS As of December 31, 2011, the Company has $1.2 million of 8¼% Limited convertible senior subordinated notes due 2012 (the “Notes”) which are no longer convertible into common shares; interest is payable semi-annually and the Notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at par. The Company had not remitted the March 1, 2010 and 2011 and September 1, 2010 and 2011 semi-annual interest payments of $417,800 each and the March 1, 2012 semi-annual interest and principal payment of $1.4 million to the trustee. The non-payments constitute an event of default under the Indenture governing the Notes and the trustee, by notice to the Company, or the holders of 25% of the principal amount of the Notes outstanding, by notice to the Company and the trustee, may declare the outstanding principal plus interest due and payable immediately. When such notice is received by the Company, no payment shall be made by the Company to the holders or trustee until the earlier of such non-payment event of default is cured or waived or 179 days since receipt by the trustee of notice of such event, unless the holder of Senior Indebtedness has accelerated the due date thereof. If the holder of Senior Indebtedness accelerates the due date at any time, then no payment may be made until the default is cured or waived. At December 31, 2011, the total amount outstanding under the Notes is classified as Current portion of long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As part of the Company’s restructuring plan, the Company offered the holders of the Notes to receive $225, without accrued interest, plus 250 shares of the Company’s Common Stock for each $1,000 Note exchanged. The offer expired on October 31, 2011. $8,976,000 principal amount of the Notes were exchanged, leaving $1.2 million outstanding. The Common Stock offered in exchange for the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has $0.3 million of 9½% Subordinated debentures due 2012 (the “Debentures”) which are due in annual sinking fund payments of $105,700 beginning in 2009, which payments have not been remitted by the Company, with the remainder due in 2012; interest is payable semi-annually and the Debentures may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at par. The Company has not remitted the June 1, 2010 and 2011 and December 1, 2010 and 2011 semi-annual interest payments of $50,200 each to the trustee. The non-payments constitute an event of default under the Indenture governing the Debentures and the trustee, by notice to the Company, or the holders of 25% of the principal amount of the Debentures outstanding, by notice to the Company and the trustee, may declare the outstanding principal plus interest due and payable immediately. During the continuation of any event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default under any agreement under which Senior Indebtedness is issued, if the effect of such default is to cause or permit the holder of Senior Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity, no payment (including any required sinking fund payments) of principal, premium or interest shall be made on the Debentures unless and until such default shall have been remedied, if written notice of such default has been given to the trustee by the Company or the holder of Senior Indebtedness. The failure to make the sinking fund and interest payments are events of default under the Credit Agreement since it involves indebtedness over $500,000 and no payment can be made to such trustee or the holders at this time as such defaults have not been waived. At December 31, 2011, the total amount outstanding under the Debentures is classified as Current portion of long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As part of the Company’s restructuring plan, the Company offered the holders of the Debentures to receive $100, without accrued interest, for each $1,000 Debenture exchanged. The offer expired on October 31, 2011. $718,000 principal amount of the Debentures were exchanged, leaving $0.3 million outstanding. The Debentures are subordinate to the claims of the holders of the Notes and the Company’s senior lender under the Credit Agreement, among other senior claims. In the event that the holders of the Notes or the Debentures or either of the trustees thereunder declare a default and begin to exercise any of their rights or remedies in connection with the non-payment defaults, this shall constitute a separate and distinct event of default and the senior lender may exercise any and all rights or remedies it may have. The amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by all of the Digital display division assets. 5 Table of Contents PENSION PLAN WAIVERS FILED On March 12, 2010 and March 11, 2011, the Company submitted to the Internal Revenue Service requests for waivers of the 2009 and 2010 minimum funding standard for its defined benefit plan. The waiver requests were submitted as a result of the economic climate and the business hardship that the Company experienced. The waivers, if granted, will defer payment of $285,000 and $559,000 of the minimum funding standard for the 2009 and 2010 plan years, respectively. If the waivers are not granted, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and the Internal Revenue Service have various enforcement remedies that can be implemented to protect the participant’s benefits, such as termination of the plan or a requirement that the Company make the unpaid contributions. At this time, the Company is expecting to make its required contributions for the 2012 plan year; however there is no assurance that the Company will be able to make all payments. The senior lender has waived the default of non-payment of certain pension plan contributions, but in the event that any government agency takes any enforcement action or otherwise exercises any rights or remedies it may have, this shall constitute a separate and distinct event of default and the senior lender may exercise any and all rights or remedies it may have under the Credit Agreement. In the event that we request waivers to defer payments in an amount greater than or equal to $1.0 million, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation may place a lien on the Company’s assets for the amount owed. This could have a material adverse effect on our profits, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. LEVERAGE As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s total long-term debt (including current portion) is $5.0 million. We expect we may incur indebtedness in connection with new rental leases and working capital requirements. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our long-term debt service requirements or that we will be able to refinance indebtedness at maturity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” RELIANCE ON KEY SUPPLIERS We design certain of our materials to match components furnished by suppliers. If such suppliers were unable or unwilling to provide us with those components, we would have to contract with other suppliers to obtain replacement sources. In particular, we purchase most of the LEDs and LED module blocks used in our digital displays and lighting from three suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. A change in suppliers of either LED module blocks or certain other components may result in engineering design changes, as well as delays in obtaining such replacement components. We believe there are presently other qualified vendors of these components. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of certain components as required, or to develop alternative sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable time, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. COMPETITION Our digital displays compete with a number of competitors, both larger and smaller than us, and with products based on different forms of technology. In addition, there are several competitors whose current products utilize similar technology and who possess the resources to develop competitive and more sophisticated products in the future. Our success is, to some extent, dependent upon our ability to anticipate technological changes in the industry and to successfully identify, obtain, develop and market new products that satisfy evolving industry requirements. There can be no assurance that competitors will not market new products which have perceived advantages over our products or which, because of pricing strategies, render the products currently sold by us less marketable or would otherwise adversely affect our operating margins. NATURE OF LEASING AND MAINTENANCE REVENUES We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from the leasing of our digital displays, generally pursuant to leases that have an average term of one to five years. Consequently, our future success is, at a minimum, dependent on our ability to obtain the renewal of existing leases or to enter into new leases as existing leases expire. We also derive a significant percentage of our revenues from maintenance agreements relating to our digital display products. 6 Table of Contents The average term of such agreements is generally one to five years. A portion of the maintenance agreements are cancelable upon 30 days notice. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the renewal of existing leases or maintenance agreements, obtaining replacement leases or realizing the value of assets currently under leases that are not renewed. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations.” DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL We believe that our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jean-Marc Allain, plays a significant role in the success of the Company and the loss of his services could have an adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to find a suitable replacement for Mr. Allain. The Company has an employment agreement with Mr. Allain that expires in 2015. The Company believes that in addition to Mr. Allain, there is a core group of executives that also plays a significant role in the success of the Company. EFFECT OF CERTAIN ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AND CONTROL BY EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains certain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock, thus making it less likely that a stockholder will receive a premium on any sale of shares. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term, making it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation also contains a provision that requires a four-fifths vote on any merger, consolidation or sale of assets with or to an “Interested Person” or “Acquiring Person.” Additionally, we are authorized to issue 500,000 shares of Preferred Stock, of which 416,500 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are outstanding as of December 31, 2011. The Preferred Stock contains such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as may be fixed by our Board of Directors, which may adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of Common Stock or delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company, or discourage bids for the Common Stock at a premium over its market price or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. As of December 31, 2011, 10 stockholders who are executive officers and/or directors of the Company beneficially own approximately 11.23% of the Common Stock. LIMITED TRADING VOLUME AND VOLATILITY OF STOCK PRICE Our Common Stock is not widely held and the volume of trading has been relatively low and sporadic. Accordingly, the Common Stock is subject to increased price volatility and reduced liquidity. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market for the Common Stock will develop or be sustained if it does develop. The limited public float of our Common Stock could cause the market price for the Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets have experienced wide price and volume fluctuations in recent periods and these fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies affected. Any of these factors could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. A SINGLE STOCKHOLDER OWNS THE VAST MAJORITY OF OUR PREFERRED STOCK. THIS STOCKHOLDER CAN INFLUENCE THE OUTCOME OF MATTERS SUBMITTED TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS FOR APPROVAL AND COULD HAVE A SERIOUS IMPACT ON OUR STOCK PRICE Gabelli Funds, LLC (“Gabelli”) and its affiliates own the vast majority of our Preferred Stock and can, therefore, influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Currently, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by Gabelli votes on a 50 to 1 basis with the Common Stock. Based on information known to us as of March 30, 2012, Gabelli owns in excess of 75% of our outstanding Common Stock upon conversion of its holdings of our Preferred Stock. As a result, Gabelli has the ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including certain proposed amendments to our certificate of incorporation, and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Gabelli may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree. The concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of our Company, which in turn could reduce the price of our Common Stock. Furthermore, a sale by Gabelli of any portion of its investment in us could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE Future sales of Common Stock in the public market by current stockholders of the Company could adversely affect the market price for the Common Stock. 585,420 shares of Common Stock may be sold in the public market by executive officers and directors, subject to the limitations contained in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Sales of substantial amounts of the shares of Common Stock in the public market, or even the potential for such sales, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS SUBJECT US TO POTENTIAL FLUCTUATIONS IN EXCHANGE RATES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES DOLLAR AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES, AS WELL AS INTERNATIONAL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS, WHICH COULD IMPACT OUR PROFITABILITY Our financial condition, operating results and future growth could be significantly impacted by risks associated with our international activities, including specifically changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies and international tax rules. Because a significant portion of the Company’s business is done in Canada, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar could seriously impact our manufacturing and other costs, as well as overall profitability. The risks to our business related to fluctuations in currency exchange rates is further magnified by the volatility in the currency markets that are characteristic of financial markets, and currency markets in particular, today. Compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls, anti-money laundering and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. We have not implemented formal policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition or operating results. OUR SIGNIFICANT MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS IN CHINA SUBJECT US TO POLITICAL AND LEGAL RISKS BEYOND OUR CONTROL Many components of our products, are produced in China by third-party manufacturers. Our reliance on third-party Chinese manufacturers exposes us to risks that are not in our control, such as unanticipated cost increases or negative fluctuations in currency, which could negatively impact our results of operations and working capital. Any termination of or significant disruption in our relationship with our Chinese suppliers may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner. Given the state of the Chinese political system, we cannot guaranty that our agreements with our Chinese suppliers will remain enforceable pursuant to Chinese law. Furthermore, we cannot guaranty that all rights to payment or performance under our agreements with our Chinese manufacturing partners will be enforceable, and that all debts owing to us, whether in the form of cash or product, will be collectable. While we do not envision any adverse change to our international operations or suppliers, especially given the gradual move towards global integration by the Chinese government and financial markets, adverse changes to these operations, as a result of political, governmental, regulatory, economic, exchange rate, labor, logistical or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results if China experiences financial or political volatility. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 