ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS LEVERAGE - -------- As of December 31, 2007, the Company's total long-term debt (including current portion) was $46.2 million. We expect we will incur indebtedness in connection with the implementation of our growth strategy. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our long-term debt service requirements or refinance indebtedness at maturity. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." RELIANCE ON KEY SUPPLIERS - ------------------------- We design certain of our materials to match components furnished by suppliers. If such suppliers were unable or unwilling to provide us with those components, we would have to contract with other suppliers to obtain replacement sources. In particular, we purchase almost all of the LED module blocks used in our electronic information displays from three suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. A change in suppliers of either LED module blocks or certain other components may result in engineering design changes, as well as delays in obtaining such replacement components. We believe there are presently other qualified vendors of these components. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of certain components as required, or to develop alternative sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable time, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. COMPETITION - ----------- Our electronic information displays compete with a number of competitors, both larger and smaller than us, and with products based on different forms of technology. In addition, there are several companies whose current products utilize similar technology and who possess the resources to develop competitive and more sophisticated products in the future. Our success is somewhat dependent upon our ability to anticipate technological changes in the industry and to successfully identify, obtain, develop and market new products that satisfy evolving industry requirements. There can be no assurance that competitors will not market new products which have perceived advantages over our products or which, because of pricing strategies, render the products currently sold by us less marketable or otherwise adversely affect our operating margins. Our motion picture theatres are subject to varying degrees of competition in the geographic areas in which they operate. Our theatres also face competition from all other forms of entertainment competing for the public's leisure time and disposable income. NATURE OF LEASING AND MAINTENANCE REVENUES - ------------------------------------------ We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from the leasing of our electronic information displays, generally pursuant to leases that have an average term of one to five years. Consequently, our future success is at least partly dependent on our ability to obtain the renewal of existing leases or to enter into new leases as existing leases expire. We also derive a significant percentage of our revenues from maintenance agreements relating to our display products. The average term of such agreements is generally one to five years. A portion of the maintenance agreements are cancelable upon 30 days notice. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining renewal of existing leases or maintenance agreements, obtaining replacement leases or realizing the value of assets currently under leases that are not renewed. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations." DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL - --------------------------- We believe that our President and Co-Chief Executive Officer, Michael R. Mulcahy, and our Co-Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, Thomas Brandt, play a significant role in the success of the Company and the loss of the services of either could have an adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to find a suitable replacement for either Mr. Mulcahy or Mr. Brandt. The Company has employment agreements with Mr. Mulcahy and Mr. Brandt, which expire in 2010 and 2009, respectively, which may be extended by the employees in case of a change-in-control approved by the present Board of Directors. The Company believes that in addition to the above referenced key personnel, there is a core group of executives that also plays a significant role in the success of the Company. EFFECT OF CERTAIN ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AND CONTROL BY EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains certain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock, thus making it less likely that a stockholder will receive a premium on any sale of shares. Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, we have two classes of common stock outstanding, Common Stock and Class B Stock, each with its own rights and preferences. Each share of Class B Stock receives ten votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders versus the one vote received for each share of Common Stock. The Class B Stock is entitled to vote separately as a class on any proposal for merger, consolidation and certain other significant transactions. Moreover, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term, making it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation also has a provision that requires a four-fifths vote on any merger, consolidation or sale of assets with or to an "Interested Person" or "Acquiring Person." Additionally, we are authorized to issue 500,000 shares of Preferred Stock containing such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as may be fixed by our Board of Directors which may adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of Common Stock or delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company, or discourage bids for the Common Stock at a premium over its market price or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. Our Board of Directors is also authorized to issue 3,000,000 shares of Class A Stock, which is identical to the Common Stock but is non-voting and is entitled to a 10% higher dividend than the Common Stock. As of December 31, 2007, 14 stockholders who are executive officers and/or directors of the Company beneficially own approximately 81.96% of our outstanding Class B Stock, 10.19% of all classes and 49.87% of the voting power. As a result, these stockholders collectively will continue to have the ability to elect all of our directors and to veto major transactions for which a stockholder vote is required under Delaware law, including mergers, consolidations and certain other significant transactions. These stockholders could also block tender offers for our Common Stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares of Common Stock. LIMITED TRADING VOLUME AND VOLATILITY OF STOCK PRICE - ---------------------------------------------------- Our Common Stock is not widely held and the volume of trading has been low and sporadic. Accordingly, the Common Stock is subject to increased price volatility and reduced liquidity. There can be no assurance a more active trading market for the Common Stock will develop, or be sustained if it does develop. The limited public float of our Common Stock could cause the market price for the Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets have experienced wide price and volume fluctuations in recent periods and these fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies affected. Any of these factors could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE - ------------------------------- Future sales of Common Stock in the public market by current stockholders of the Company could adversely affect the market price for the Common Stock. 324,285 shares of Common Stock (including Class B Stock if converted into equal amounts of Common Stock) may be sold in the public market by executive officers and directors, subject to the limitations contained in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Sales of substantial amounts of the shares of Common Stock in the public market, or even the potential for such sales, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 