ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN - --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and further states that the continuing losses and uncertainty regarding the inability to make the required sinking fund payment on the Debentures and the interest payment on the Notes and the potential of the senior lender accelerating the payments on the Credit Agreement due to an event of default on the Debentures and Notes raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result, if the Company is unable to (i) obtain additional liquidity for working capital, (ii) make the required sinking fund payment on its Debentures, (iii) make the required interest payment on its Notes, and (iv) make the required payments under the Credit Agreement when due, there would be a significant adverse impact on our financial position and operating results of the Company. THE CURRENT GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS HAS NEGATIVELY IMPACTED OUR BUSINESS - ----------------------------------------------------------------------- The current continuing global economic crisis has adversely affected our customers and our suppliers and businesses such as ours. As a result, it has had a variety of negative effects on the Company such as reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for uncollectable accounts receivable and/or write-offs of accounts receivable, impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations and could otherwise have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 5 OPERATING LOSSES - ---------------- The Company has incurred operating losses for the past several years. During the years 2009 and 2008, the Company incurred losses from continuing operations of $8.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively, which includes a $2.7 million write off in the second quarter of 2009 of a note receivable related to the former Norwalk, Connecticut facility the Company sold in 2004. The Company is dependent on future operating performance in order to generate sufficient cash flows in order to continue to run its businesses. Future operating performance is dependent on general economic conditions, as well as financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we have experienced a decline in our sales and lease bases. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to generate cash to fund current operations. DEFAULT ON INDEBTEDNESS - ----------------------- The Company has $10.1 million of Notes outstanding, which are no longer convertible into common shares. Interest is payable semi-annually and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at par. The Company has not remitted the $0.4 million March 1, 2010 semi-annual interest payment to the trustee, which has continued for 30 days. The non-payment constitutes an event of default under the Indenture governing the Notes and the trustee, by notice to the Company, or the holders of 25% of the principal outstanding, by notice to the Company and the trustee, may declare the outstanding principal plus interest due and payable immediately. When such notice is received by the Company, no payment shall be made by the Company to the holders or trustee until the earlier of such non-payment event of default is cured or waived or 179 days since receipt by the trustee of notice of such event, unless the holder of Senior Indebtedness has accelerated due date thereof. If the holder of Senior Indebtedness accelerates the due date at any time, then no payment may be made until the default is cured or waived. At December 31, 2009, the total amount outstanding is classified as current portion of long-term debt. In addition, the Company has $1.1 million of Debentures outstanding. The Company has not remitted the December 1, 2009 annual sinking fund payment of $105,700. The non-payment constitutes an Event of Default under the Indenture governing the Debentures and the trustee, by notice to the Company, or the holders of 25% of the principal outstanding, by notice to the Company and the trustee, may declare the outstanding principal plus interest due and payable immediately. During the continuation of any event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default under any agreement under which Senior Indebtedness is issued, if the effect of such default is to cause, or permit the holder of such Senior Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity, no payment (including any required sinking fund payment) of principal, premium or interest shall be made on the Debentures unless and until such default shall have been remedied, if written notice of such default has been given to the trustee by the Company or the holder of Senior Indebtedness. The failure to make the sinking fund payment is an event of default under the Credit Agreement since it involves indebtedness over $500,000 and no payment can be made to such trustee or the holders at this time as such event has not been waived. At December 31, 2009, the total amount outstanding is classified as current portion of long-term debt. In the event that the holders of the Notes or Debentures or trustees declare a default and begins to exercise any of their rights and remedies in connection with the non-payment defaults, this shall constitute a separate and distinct event of default and the senior lender may exercise any and all rights and remedies it may have. As a result, at December 31, 2009 the total amount outstanding is classified as current portion of long-term debt. The amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by all of the Display division assets. PENSION PLAN WAIVER FILED - ------------------------- On March 12, 2010, the Company submitted to the Internal Revenue Service a request for waiver of the minimum funding standard for its defined benefit plan. The waiver request was submitted as a result of the current economic climate and the current business hardship that the Company is experiencing. The waiver, if granted, will defer payment of $285,000 of the minimum funding standard for the 2009 plan year. If the waiver is not granted, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and the Internal Revenue Service have various enforcement remedies they can implement to protect the participant's benefits, such as termination of the plan or require the Company to make the unpaid contributions. At this time, the Company is anticipating making its required contributions for the 2010 plan year; however there is no assurance that the Company will be able to make all payments. The senior lender has waived the default of non-payment of certain pension plan contributions. In the event that any government agency takes any enforcement action or otherwise exercises any rights and remedies it may have, this shall constitute a separate and distinct event of default and the senior lender may exercise any and all rights and remedies it may have. 6 LEVERAGE - -------- As of December 31, 2009, the Company's total long-term debt (including current portion) was $19.2 million. We expect we will incur indebtedness in connection with new rental equipment leases and working capital. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our long-term debt service requirements or that we will be able to refinance indebtedness at maturity. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." RELIANCE ON KEY SUPPLIERS - ------------------------- We design certain of our materials to match components furnished by suppliers. If such suppliers were unable or unwilling to provide us with those components, we would have to contract with other suppliers to obtain replacement sources. In particular, we purchase almost all of the LED module blocks used in our electronic information displays from three suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. A change in suppliers of either LED module blocks or certain other components may result in engineering design changes, as well as delays in obtaining such replacement components. We believe there are presently other qualified vendors of these components. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of certain components as required, or to develop alternative sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable time, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. COMPETITION - ----------- Our electronic information displays compete with a number of competitors, both larger and smaller than us, and with products based on different forms of technology. In addition, there are several companies whose current products utilize similar technology and who possess the resources to develop competitive and more sophisticated products in the future. Our success is somewhat dependent upon our ability to anticipate technological changes in the industry and to successfully identify, obtain, develop and market new products that satisfy evolving industry requirements. There can be no assurance that competitors will not market new products which have perceived advantages over our products or which, because of pricing strategies, render the products currently sold by us less marketable or otherwise adversely affect our operating margins. NATURE OF LEASING AND MAINTENANCE REVENUES - ------------------------------------------ We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from the leasing of our electronic information displays, generally pursuant to leases that have an average term of one to five years. Consequently, our future success is at least partly dependent on our ability to obtain the renewal of existing leases or to enter into new leases as existing leases expire. We also derive a significant percentage of our revenues from maintenance agreements relating to our display products. The average term of such agreements is generally one to five years. A portion of the maintenance agreements is cancelable upon 30 days notice. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining renewal of existing leases or maintenance agreements, obtaining replacement leases or realizing the value of assets currently under leases that are not renewed. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations." EFFECT OF CERTAIN ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AND CONTROL BY EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains certain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock, thus making it less likely that a stockholder will receive a premium on any sale of shares. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term, making it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation also has a provision that requires a four-fifths vote on any merger, consolidation or sale of assets with or to an "Interested Person" or "Acquiring Person." Additionally, we are authorized to issue 500,000 shares of Preferred Stock containing such rights, preferences, privileges and 7 restrictions as may be fixed by our Board of Directors, which may adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of Common Stock or delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company, or discourage bids for the Common Stock at a premium over its market price or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. As of December 31, 2009, 13 stockholders who are executive officers and/or directors of the Company beneficially own approximately 2.22% of the voting power. LIMITED TRADING VOLUME AND VOLATILITY OF STOCK PRICE - ---------------------------------------------------- Our Common Stock is not widely held and the volume of trading has been relatively low and sporadic. Accordingly, the Common Stock is subject to increased price volatility and reduced liquidity. There can be no assurance a more active trading market for the Common Stock will develop or be sustained if it does develop. The limited public float of our Common Stock could cause the market price for the Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets have experienced wide price and volume fluctuations in recent periods and these fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies affected. Any of these factors could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE - ------------------------------- Future sales of Common Stock in the public market by current stockholders of the Company could adversely affect the market price for the Common Stock. 54,588 shares of Common Stock may be sold in the public market by executive officers and directors, subject to the limitations contained in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Sales of substantial amounts of the shares of Common Stock in the public market, or even the potential for such sales, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. On December 11, 2009, the stockholders approved an amendment to the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation to provide for the automatic conversion of each share of Class B Stock into 1.3 shares of Common Stock as provided in a Settlement Agreement approved by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 