ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risks and all other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K are not the only ones facing our business. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall and you could lose all or part of your investment. General Economic Conditions May Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Operating Results, Financial Condition, Or Our Ability To Meet Our Commitments. The electronic instrumentation distribution industry is affected by changes in economic conditions, which are outside our control. Economic slowdowns, adverse economic conditions or cyclical trends in certain customer markets may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or our ability to meet our commitments. We Depend On Manufacturers To Supply Our Inventory And Rely On One Vendor Group To Supply A Significant Amount Of Our Inventory Purchases. If They Fail To Provide Desired Products To Us, Increase Prices, Or Fail To Timely Deliver Products, Our Sales Could Suffer. A significant amount of our inventory purchases are made from one vendor group. Our reliance on this vendor group leaves us vulnerable to having an inadequate supply of required products, price increases, late deliveries, and poor product quality. Like other distributors in our industry, we occasionally experience supply shortages and are unable to purchase our desired volume of products. If we are unable to enter into and maintain satisfactory distribution arrangements with leading manufacturers, if we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of products, or if manufacturers do not regularly invest in, introduce to us, and/or make available to us for distribution new products, our sales could suffer considerably. Finally, we cannot provide any assurance that particular products, or product lines, will be available to us, or available in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand. This is of particular significance to our business because the products we sell are often only available from one source. Any limits to product access could materially and adversely affect our business. Indebtedness. Under our Credit Agreement, as amended, we have two term loans, in addition to our revolving line of credit. As of March 25, 2006, we owed $4.3 million to our secured creditor. We are required to meet financial tests on a quarterly basis and comply with other covenants customary in secured financings. Although we believe that we will continue to be in compliance with such covenants, if we do not remain in compliance with such covenants, our lender may demand immediate repayment of amounts outstanding. Changes in interest rates may have a significant effect on our monthly payment obligations and operating results. Furthermore, we are dependent on credit from manufacturers of our products to fund our inventory purchases. If our debt burden increases to high levels, such manufacturers may restrict our credit. Our cash 13 Table of Contents requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the rate of growth of our sales, the timing and levels of products purchased, payment terms, and credit limits from manufacturers, the timing and level of our accounts receivable collections and our ability to manage our business profitably. Our ability to satisfy our existing obligations, whether or not under our secured credit facility, will depend upon our future operating performance, which may be impacted by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K, many of which are beyond our control. If Existing Shareholders Sell Large Numbers Of Shares Of Our Common Stock, Our Stock Price Could Decline. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders or holders of stock options of a large number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur. Our Stock Price Has Been, And May Continue To Be, Volatile. The stock market, from time to time, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are both related and unrelated to the operating performance of companies. As our stock may be affected by market volatility, and by our own performance, the following factors, among others, may have a significant effect on the market price of our Common Stock: • Developments in our relationships with current or future manufacturers of products we distribute; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • Litigation or governmental proceedings or announcements involving us or our industry; • Economic and other external factors, such as disasters or other crises; • Sales of our Common Stock or other securities in the open market; • Period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; and • Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. We Expect That Our Quarterly Results Of Operations Will Fluctuate. Such Fluctuation Could Cause Our Stock Price To Decline. A large portion of our expenses for calibration services, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed, as is our commitment to purchase a pre-determined amount of inventory. Accordingly, if revenues decline or do not grow as we anticipate, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses in any particular quarter. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. If our operating results in some quarters fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price would likely decline. Some of the factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include: • Fluctuations in industrial demand for products we sell and/or services we provide; and • Fluctuations in geographic conditions, including currency and other economic conditions. If We Fail To Attract And Retain Qualified Personnel, We May Not Be Able To Achieve Our Stated Corporate Objectives. Our ability to manage our anticipated growth, if realized, effectively depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified executive officers and technical personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified individuals, we will not be able to achieve our stated corporate objectives. Changes In Accounting Standards, Legal Requirements And The NASDAQ Stock Market Listing Standards, Or Our Ability To Comply With Any Existing Requirements Or Standards, Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Extensive reforms relating to public company financial reporting, corporate governance and ethics, the NASDAQ Stock Market listing standards and oversight of the accounting profession have been implemented over the past several years. Compliance with the new rules, regulations and standards that have resulted from such reforms has increased our accounting and legal costs and has required significant management time and attention. In the event that additional rules, regulations or standards are implemented or any of the existing rules, regulations or standards to which we are subject undergo additional material modification, we could be forced to spend significant financial and management resources to ensure our continued compliance, which could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, although we believe we are in full compliance with all such existing rules, regulations and standards, should we be or become unable to comply with any of such rules, regulations and standards, as they presently exist or as they may exist in the future, our results of operations could be adversely effected and the market price of our Common Stock could decline. 14 Table of Contents The Distribution Products Industry Is Highly Competitive, And We May Not Be Able To Compete Successfully. We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. Most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers could also increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and bypass distributors like us. Industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors could also increase competition. In the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. Our Revenues Depend On Our Relationships With Capable Sales Personnel As Well As Key Customers, Vendors And Manufacturers Of The Products That We Distribute. Our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as key customers, vendors and manufacturers. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may suffer. Our Future Success Is Substantially Dependent Upon Our Senior Management. Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management. Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. Increases In The Cost Of Shipping Or Service Trouble With Our Third-Party Shippers Could Harm Our Business. Shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. We ship almost all of our U.S. orders through United Parcel Service, Inc. and other delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. Accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. Our Acquisitions May Not Result In The Benefits And Revenue Growth We Expect. We are in the process of integrating our acquisition of NWCI, and assimilating the operations, services, products and personnel with our management policies, procedures and strategies. We cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. To effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls. If we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. Tax Legislation Initiatives Could Adversely Affect The Company’s Net Earnings And Tax Liabilities. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 