ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risks and all other information included in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report are not the only ones facing our business. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall and you could lose all or part of your investment. A continuation or worsening of the recent economic recession may adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The recent economic recession has caused business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. to be greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, certain sectors remain weak and unemployment remains high. Many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending. Continued or worsening economic conditions could be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; a worsening of the debt crisis in Europe; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our current credit facility will provide us with sufficient liquidity if economic conditions continue or worsen, the impact of continued or worsening recessionary trends on our major customers and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. The inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. A disruption in the ability of our largest customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and services and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a negative effect on our results of operations and liquidity. We depend on manufacturers to supply our inventory and rely on one vendor group to supply a significant amount of our inventory purchases. If they fail to provide desired products to us, increase prices, or fail to timely deliver products, our revenue and gross profit could suffer. A significant amount of our inventory purchases are made from one vendor, Fluke. Our reliance on this vendor leaves us vulnerable to having an inadequate supply of required products, price increases, late deliveries, and poor product quality. Like other distributors in our industry, we occasionally experience supplier shortages and are unable to purchase our desired volume of products. If we are unable to enter into and maintain satisfactory distribution arrangements with leading manufacturers, if we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of products, or if manufacturers do not regularly invest in, introduce to us, and/or make new products available to us for distribution, our sales could suffer considerably. Finally, we cannot provide any assurance that particular products, or product lines, will be available to us, or available in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand. This is of particular significance to our business because the products we sell are often only available from one source. Any limits to product access could materially and adversely affect our business. 11 Table of Contents Our future success may be affected by future indebtedness. Under our revolving credit facility, as of March 31, 2012, we owed $3.4 million to our secured creditor. We may borrow additional funds in the future to support our growth and working capital needs. We are required to meet financial tests on a quarterly basis and comply with other covenants customary in secured financings. Although we believe that we will continue to be in compliance with such covenants, if we do not remain in compliance with such covenants, our lender may demand immediate repayment of amounts outstanding. Changes in interest rates may have a significant effect on our payment obligations and operating results. Furthermore, we are dependent on credit from manufacturers of our products to fund our inventory purchases. If our debt burden increases to high levels, such manufacturers may restrict our credit. Our cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the rate of growth of our revenues, the timing and levels of products purchased, payment terms, and credit limits from manufacturers, the timing and level of our accounts receivable collections and our ability to manage our business profitably. Our ability to satisfy our existing obligations, whether or not under our secured credit facility, will depend upon our future operating performance, which may be impacted by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors described in this report, many of which are beyond our control. The relatively low trading volume of our common stock may limit your ability to sell your shares. Although our shares of common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we have historically experienced a relatively low trading volume. If our low trading volume continues in the future, holders of our shares may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at a price that might otherwise be attainable. If existing shareholders sell large numbers of shares of our common stock, our stock price could decline. The market price of our common stock could decline if a large number of our shares are sold in the public market by our existing shareholders or holders of stock options or as a result of the perception that these sales could occur. Due to the low trading volume of our common stock, the sale of a large number of shares of our common stock may significantly depress the price of our common stock. Recently, certain shareholders who are advised by NSB Advisors LLC (“NSB”) have sold a significant amount of our common stock, which has reduced the price of our common stock. According to an amendment to Schedule 13G filed by NSB on June 8, 2012, clients of NSB held 56.1% of our common stock as of May 31, 2012. If clients of NSB continue to sell large amounts of our common stock, the price of our common stock may decline further. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The stock market, from time to time, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are both related and unrelated to the operating performance of companies. As our stock may be affected by market volatility, and by our own performance, the following factors, among others, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • Developments in our relationships with current or future manufacturers of products we distribute; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • Litigation or governmental proceedings or announcements involving us or our industry; • Economic and other external factors, such as disasters or other crises; • Sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; • Period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; and • Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate. Such fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. A large portion of our expenses for calibration services, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed. Accordingly, if revenues decline or do not grow as we anticipate, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses in any particular quarter. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. If our operating results in some quarters fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price would likely decline. Some of the factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate include: • Fluctuations in industrial demand for products we sell and/or services we provide; and • Fluctuations in geographic conditions, including currency and other economic conditions. 12 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards, legal requirements and the NASDAQ stock market listing standards, or our ability to comply with any existing requirements or standards, could adversely affect our operating results. Extensive reforms relating to public company financial reporting, corporate governance and ethics, The NASDAQ Stock Market listing standards and oversight of the accounting profession have been implemented over the past several years and continue to evolve. Compliance with these rules, regulations and standards that have resulted from such reforms has increased our accounting and legal costs and has required significant management time and attention. In the event that additional rules, regulations or standards are implemented or any of the existing rules, regulations or standards to which we are subject undergoes additional material modification, we could be forced to spend significant financial and management resources to ensure our continued compliance, which could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, although we believe we are in full compliance with all such existing rules, regulations and standards, should we be or become unable to comply with any of such rules, regulations and standards, as they presently exist or as they may exist in the future, our results of operations could be adversely effected and the market price of our common stock could decline. The distribution products industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. Most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers could also increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and bypass distributors like us. Industry consolidation among product distributors, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors could also increase competition and adversely affect our business or results of operations. In the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our sales. We rely on our CalTrak®, Application Plus and other management information systems for inventory management, distribution, workflow, accounting and other functions. If our CalTrak®, Application Plus and other information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business depends on our management information systems. We rely on our CalTrak®, Application Plus and other management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, customer service, warehouse management, order entry, order fulfillment, inventory replenishment, documentation, asset management, and workflow. The failure of our management information systems to perform could disrupt our business and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses or hackers, natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, or other computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failures. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to attract qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our stated corporate objectives. Our ability to manage our anticipated growth, if realized, effectively depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified executive officers and technical personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified individuals, we will not be able to achieve our stated corporate objectives. Our revenue depends on retaining capable sales personnel as well as our relationships with key customers, key vendors and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. Our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as key customers, vendors and manufacturers who appreciate the value of our services. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management. Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel, the inability of which could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our acquisitions or future acquisition efforts, which are important to our growth, may not be successful, which may limit our growth or adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions have been an important part of our development to date. As part of our business strategy, we may make additional acquisitions of companies that could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, provide us with important relationships or otherwise offer us growth opportunities. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate successfully the terms of or finance the acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of our acquisitions without encountering difficulties, including unanticipated costs, possible difficulty in retaining customers and supplier or manufacturing relationships, failure to retain key employees, the diversion of our management’s attention or failure to integrate our information and accounting systems. We may not realize the revenues and cost savings that we expect to achieve or that would justify the investments, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. To effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of the companies that we acquire and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls. If we fail in any of these areas, our business growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively impact our results of operations. Our goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill and/or intangible assets may be impaired. Any excess goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets value resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business that will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with the businesses we acquire, which may adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We have completed our annual impairment analysis for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance, and have concluded that we do not have any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as of March 31, 2012. The financing of any future acquisitions we make may result in dilution to your stock ownership and/or could increase our leverage and our risk of defaulting on our bank debt. Our business strategy includes expansion into new markets and enhancement of our position in existing markets, including through acquisitions. In order to successfully complete targeted acquisitions we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute your stock ownership. We may also incur additional debt if we acquire another company, which could significantly increase our leverage and our risk of default under our existing credit facility. Tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect the Company’s net earnings and tax liabilities. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 14 Table of Contents 