ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risks and all other information included in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report are not the only ones facing our business. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations 13 Table of Contents would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall and you could lose all or part of your investment. General Economic Conditions May Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Operating Results, Financial Condition, Or Our Ability To Meet Our Commitments. The Recent Global Financial Crisis Has Had And May Continue To Have An Impact On Our Business And Financial Condition In Ways That We Currently Cannot Predict Including The Impact On Our Customers’ Activity Levels And Spending For Our Products And Services. The test and measurement instrument distribution industry is affected by changes in economic conditions, which are outside our control. Economic slowdowns, adverse economic conditions or cyclical trends in certain customer markets may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or our ability to meet our commitments. Based on a number of economic indicators, growth in global economic activity has slowed substantially. At the present time, the likelihood, extent and timing of a recovery in the global economy is uncertain. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial markets has had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. The global financial crisis has impacted and could continue to impact our liquidity. Customer collections are our primary source of cash. While we believe we have a well diversified customer base and no concentration of credit risk with any single customer, we have a number of large customers that have been and could continue to be affected by the slowed economy. While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions continue to deteriorate we may experience increased unpredictability in our customer base, including reductions in their commitments to us, which could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Deteriorating market and liquidity conditions may also give rise to issues which may impact our lender’s ability to hold its debt commitments to us to their full term. Accordingly, while this would be highly unusual, these lenders of committed and drawn facilities could attempt to call this debt which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, even though no call provisions exist without being in default. We Depend On Manufacturers To Supply Our Inventory And Rely On One Vendor Group To Supply A Significant Amount Of Our Inventory Purchases. If They Fail To Provide Desired Products To Us, Increase Prices, Or Fail To Timely Deliver Products, Our Revenue and Gross Profit Could Suffer. A significant amount of our inventory purchases are made from one vendor, Fluke. Our reliance on this vendor leaves us vulnerable to having an inadequate supply of required products, price increases, late deliveries, and poor product quality. Like other distributors in our industry, we occasionally experience supplier shortages and are unable to purchase our desired volume of products. If we are unable to enter into and maintain satisfactory distribution arrangements with leading manufacturers, if we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of products, or if manufacturers do not regularly invest in, introduce to us, and/or make new products available to us for distribution, our sales could suffer considerably. Finally, we cannot provide any assurance that particular products, or product lines, will be available to us, or available in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand. This is of particular significance to our business because the products we sell are often only available from one source. Any limits to product access could materially and adversely affect our business. Our Future Success May Be Affected By Future Indebtedness. Under our revolving credit facility, as of March 28, 2009, we owed $3.5 million to our secured creditor. We may borrow additional funds in the future to support our growth and working capital needs. We are required to meet financial tests on a quarterly basis and comply with other covenants customary in secured financings. Although we believe that we will continue to be in compliance with such covenants, if we do not remain in compliance with such covenants, our lender may demand immediate repayment of amounts outstanding. Changes in interest rates may have a significant effect on our payment obligations and operating results. Furthermore, we are dependent on credit from manufacturers of our products to fund our inventory purchases. If our debt burden increases to high levels, such manufacturers may restrict our credit. Our cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the rate of growth of our revenues, the timing and levels of products purchased, payment terms, and credit limits from manufacturers, the timing and level of our accounts receivable collections and our ability to manage our business profitably. Our ability to satisfy our existing obligations, whether or not under our 14 Table of Contents secured credit facility, will depend upon our future operating performance, which may be impacted by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors described in this report, many of which are beyond our control. If Existing Shareholders Sell Large Numbers Of Shares Of Our Common Stock, Our Stock Price Could Decline. The market price of our common stock could decline if a large number of our shares are sold in the public market by our existing shareholders or holders of stock options or as a result of the perception that these sales could occur. Our Stock Price Has Been, And May Continue To Be, Volatile. The stock market, from time to time, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are both related and unrelated to the operating performance of companies. As our stock may be affected by market volatility, and by our own performance, the following factors, among others, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • Developments in our relationships with current or future manufacturers of products we distribute; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • Litigation or governmental proceedings or announcements involving us or our industry; • Economic and other external factors, such as disasters or other crises; • Sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; • Period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; and • Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. We Expect That Our Quarterly Results Of Operations Will Fluctuate. Such Fluctuation Could Cause Our Stock Price To Decline. A large portion of our expenses for calibration services, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed. Accordingly, if revenues decline or do not grow as we anticipate, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses in any particular quarter. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. If our operating results in some quarters fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price would likely decline. Some of the factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate include: • Fluctuations in industrial demand for products we sell and/or services we provide; and • Fluctuations in geographic conditions, including currency and other economic conditions. Changes In Accounting Standards, Legal Requirements And The NASDAQ Stock Market Listing Standards, Or Our Ability To Comply With Any Existing Requirements Or Standards, Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Extensive reforms relating to public company financial reporting, corporate governance and ethics, the NASDAQ Stock Market listing standards and oversight of the accounting profession have been implemented over the past several years and continue to evolve. Compliance with these rules, regulations and standards that have resulted from such reforms has increased our accounting and legal costs and has required significant management time and attention. In the event that additional rules, regulations or standards are implemented or any of the existing rules, regulations or standards to which we are subject undergoes additional material modification, we could be forced to spend significant financial and management resources to ensure our continued compliance, which could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, although we believe we are in full compliance with all such existing rules, regulations and standards, should we be or become unable to comply with any of such rules, regulations and standards, as they presently exist or as they may exist in the future, our results of operations could be adversely effected and the market price of our common stock could decline. The Distribution Products Industry Is Highly Competitive, And We May Not Be Able To Compete Successfully. We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. Most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers could also increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and bypass distributors like us. Industry consolidation among product distributors, the 15 Table of Contents unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors could also increase competition and adversely affect our business or results of operations. In the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our sales. If We Fail To Attract And Retain Qualified Personnel, We May Not Be Able To Achieve Our Stated Corporate Objectives. Our ability to manage our anticipated growth, if realized, effectively depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified executive officers and technical personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified individuals, we will not be able to achieve our stated corporate objectives. Our Revenue Depends On Retaining Capable Sales Personnel As Well As Our Relationships With Key Customers, Vendors And Manufacturers Of The Products That We Distribute. Our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel who appreciate the value of our services as well as key customers, vendors and manufacturers. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our Future Success Is Substantially Dependent Upon Our Senior Management. Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management. Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel, the inability of which could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Our Acquisitions Or Future Acquisition Efforts, Which Are Important To Our Growth, May Not Be Successful, Which May Limit Our Growth Or Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. Acquisitions have been an important part of our development to date. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, we acquired Westcon. As part of our business strategy, we may make additional acquisitions of companies that could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, provide us with important relationships or otherwise offer us growth opportunities. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate successfully the terms of or finance the acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of our acquisitions without encountering difficulties, including unanticipated costs, possible difficulty in retaining customers and supplier or manufacturing relationships, failure to retain key employees, the diversion of our management’s attention or failure to integrate our information and accounting systems. As a result of our acquisition of Westcon and future acquisitions, we may not realize the revenues and cost savings that we expect to achieve or that would justify the investments, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. To effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of the companies that we acquire and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls. If we fail in any of these areas, our business growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our Recently Completed Acquisition Of Westcon Makes Evaluating Our Operating Results Difficult Given The Significance To Our Operations, And Our Historical Results Do Not Present An Accurate Indication Of How We Will Perform In The Future. Our historical results of operations do not give effect for a full fiscal year to our acquisition of Westcon. Accordingly, our historical financial information does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, operating results and cash flows will be in the future as a result of this acquisition, or give you an accurate indication of how we will perform in the future. The Financing Of Any Future Acquisitions We Make May Result In Dilution To Your Stock Ownership And/Or Could Increase Our Leverage And Our Risk Of Defaulting On Our Bank Debt. Our business strategy includes expansion into new markets and enhancement of our position in existing markets, including through acquisitions. In order to successfully complete targeted acquisitions we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute your stock ownership. We may also incur additional debt if we acquire another company, which could significantly increase our leverage and our risk of default under our existing credit facility. For example, in financing our Westcon acquisition, we issued 150,000 shares of our common stock in a private placement to Westcon’s sole shareholder and incurred approximately $4.6 million of additional debt under our amended credit facility to fund a portion of the purchase price. 16 Table of Contents Tax Legislation Initiatives Could Adversely Affect The Company’s Net Earnings And Tax Liabilities. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 