ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may be liable for all or a portion of the environmental clean-up costs at sites previously owned or leased by the Company (or by corporations acquired by the Company). Due primarily to federal and state legislation which imposes liability, regardless of fault, upon commercial product manufacturers for environmental impact caused by chemicals, processes and practices that were commonly and lawfully used prior to the enactment of such legislation, the Company may be liable for all or a portion of the environmental clean-up costs at sites previously owned or leased by the Company (or by corporations acquired by the Company). The Company’s contingencies associated with environmental matters are described in Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” set forth on page 19 of the 2006 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference. We are subject to competition from entities which could have a substantial impact on our business. The Company competes in some markets with entities that are larger and have substantially greater financial and technical resources than the Company. Generally, competitive factors include design capabilities, product performance, delivery and price. The Company’s ability to compete successfully in such markets will depend on its ability to develop and apply technological innovations and to expand its customer base and product lines. The Company has been successful doing so both internally and through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to successfully compete in any or all of the businesses discussed above. The failure of the Company to compete successfully could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. A substantial amount of our revenue is derived from United States Government contracts. Approximately 46% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2006, as compared to 60% and 61% in 2005 and 2004, respectively, were derived from sales to the United States Government, principally the military services of the Department of Defense and its prime contractors and are therefore affected by, among other things, the federal 3 Table of Contents budget authorization and appropriation processes. These contracts typically contain precise performance specifications and are subject to customary provisions which give the United States Government the contractual right of termination for convenience. Notwithstanding that in the event of termination for convenience, the Company is typically protected by provisions allowing reimbursement for costs incurred as well as payment of any applicable fees or profits, the termination, postponement or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the United States Government could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Cancellations of purchase orders or reductions of product quality requirements in existing contracts could materially reduce our backlog. A discussion of the risks associated with the backlog is set forth in the 2006 Annual Report in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 24 thereof and is incorporated herein by reference. Our potential tax benefits from net operating loss carryforwards are subject to a number of risks. A discussion of the risks attendant to realization of the tax benefit from net operating losses is set forth in the 2006 Annual Report in Note 6 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 16 thereof and is incorporated herein by reference. Our liquidity requirements and capital resources depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. A discussion of the Company’s liquidity requirements and attendant risks is set forth in the 2006 Annual Report in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 25 and is incorporated herein by reference. Our common stock is thinly traded and subject to volatility. Our common stock is traded over the counter (“OTC”). Generally speaking, investing in OTC securities is speculative and carries a high degree of risk. Many OTC securities are relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded,” which can enhance volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the quoted share price. Further, investors seeking to buy or sell a certain quantity of our shares in the public market may be unable to do so within one or more trading days. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for holders to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. The prevailing market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • Changes in market valuations of other similarly situated companies; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Future sales of common stock; • Any deviations in net revenues or in losses from levels expected by the investment community; and • Trading volume fluctuations. 4 Table of Contents We are subject to increases in the cost of our borrowings as a result of rising interest rates, which could have an adverse effect on us and our ability to make debt service payments. The Company is exposed to various market risks, primarily changes in interest rates associated with the Senior Credit Facility which closed on May 1, 2006. The Senior Credit Facility is tied to LIBOR and as such, a 1% increase or decrease will have the effect of increasing or decreasing interest expense by approximately $0.4 million based on the amount outstanding under the facility at May 1, 2006. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 