ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently deem to be material and that we believe are specific to our company and our industry. In addition to these risks, our business may be subject to risks currently unknown to us. If any of these or other risks actually occurs, our business may be adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with our Business and/or Industry A substantial amount of our revenue is derived from the U.S. Government, Finmeccanica SpA, United Technologies Corporation and Transaero Inc.; a termination or reduction in the volume of business with any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profits. Approximately 29%, 22%, 12% and 11% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2012 were to the U.S. Government (direct), United Technologies Corporation, Finmeccanica SpA, and Transaero Inc., respectively. These sales are made principally for the benefit of the military services of the U.S. Department of Defense and defense organizations of other countries and are affected by, among other things, budget authorization and appropriation processes. In the event that defense expenditures are reduced for products we manufacture or services we provide and are not offset by revenues from additional foreign sales, new programs, or products or services that we currently manufacture or provide, we may experience a reduction in our revenues and earnings and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that our significant customers will continue to buy our products and services at current or increased levels. We depend heavily on government contracts that may not be fully funded or may be terminated, and the failure to receive funding or the termination of one or more of these contracts could reduce our sales and increase our costs. Sales to the U.S. Government and its prime contractors and subcontractors represent a significant portion of our business. In fiscal 2012, sales under U.S. Government contracts represented approximately 63% of our total sales. Sales to foreign governments represented approximately 14% of our total sales. We expect that the 7 Table of Contents percentage of our revenues from government contracts will continue to be substantial in the future. Government programs can be structured into a series of individual contracts. The funding of these programs is generally subject to annual congressional appropriations, and congressional priorities are subject to change. In addition, Congress may reduce expenditures for defense programs or terminate such programs any time. A decline in government expenditures or redirection of government funding may result in a reduction in the volume of contracts awarded to us. We have resources applied to specific government contracts and if any of those contracts were terminated, we may incur substantial costs redeploying those resources. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations and any non-compliance could subject us to fines, penalties or debarment. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, contract termination, or debarment from bidding on future contracts. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks, or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by government agencies. The failure to comply with the terms of government contracts could harm our business reputation and could also result in progress payments being withheld. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. Government agencies, such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of a contractor’s compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties as well as administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. The U.S. Government has the right to terminate or not renew any contract with us at any time and without notice. Any such action would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In some instances, laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any government contract and, in general, subcontracts, at its convenience as well as for default based on performance. Upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if contract completion would have resulted in a loss. Upon termination for convenience of a cost-reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Such allowable costs would normally include the cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. A termination arising from default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor. In addition, our U.S. Government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. The U.S. Government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the U.S. Government is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. 8 Table of Contents The aircraft manufacturing industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer. Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all aviation products. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries. We include, with some of the products we sell to our aircraft manufacturing customers, documentation certifying that each part complies with applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to sell our products, we and the products we manufacture must also be certified by our individual OEM customers. If any of the material authorizations or approvals qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the subject product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Cancellations, reductions, or delays in customer orders may adversely affect our results of operations. Our overall operating results are affected by many factors, including the timing of orders from large customers and the timing of expenditures to manufacture parts and purchase inventory in anticipation of future sales of products and services. A large portion of our operating expenses are relatively fixed. Cancellations, reductions, or delays in customer orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Engineering product development delays or customer engineering product development contract cancellations may adversely affect our results of operations. Our new product development requires up-front engineering research & development expenditures that impact current income and qualification units that are capitalized as intangible assets on the balance sheet. These engineering research & development expenditures may not result in future revenue-generating products or may not become technically viable as a result of pre-production qualification testing. These research & development expenditures are generally incurred as a part of awarded new product development for customers’ aerospace platforms. If the product being designed does not meet customer technical specifications or timely delivery needs, we may need to write-off capitalized qualification units and reimburse customers for their costs that result from our product delivery delay. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation at any time without notice, which could negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed by contract to purchase from us. Backlog as of March 31, 2012 was $111,184. Backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future sales. The U.S. Government may unilaterally modify or cancel its contracts with us. In addition, under certain of our commercial contracts, our customers may unilaterally modify or terminate their orders at any time for their convenience. Accordingly, certain portions of our backlog can be cancelled or reduced at the option of the U.S. Government and commercial customers. Our failure to replace cancelled or reduced backlog could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. We are subject to competition from entities which could have a substantial impact on our business. We compete in some markets with entities that are larger and have substantially greater financial and technical resources than us. Generally, competitive factors include design capabilities, product performance, delivery, and price. Our ability to compete successfully in such markets will depend on our ability to develop and 9 Table of Contents apply technological innovations and to expand our customer base and product lines. In addition, the development and application of technological innovations may mandate an expenditure of significant capital which may not be recovered through future sales of products or services. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully compete in any or all of the businesses discussed above. Our failure to compete successfully or to invest in technology where there is no recovery through product sales could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. Our potential tax benefits from net operating loss carry forwards are subject to a number of risks. We have federal and state net operating loss carry forwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $9,023 and $489, respectively. Our NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income through their respective expiration dates and thereby reduce or eliminate our federal income taxes otherwise payable. If we do not generate adequate taxable earnings, some or all of our net operating loss carry forwards may not be realized. Additionally, changes to the federal income tax laws also could impact its ability to use the NOLs. The risks to realizing the tax benefit from NOLs are discussed in additional detail in Note 5 of our financial statements contained elsewhere in this report. We are subject to liability under environmental laws. Our business and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and other waste products. Environmental laws generally impose liability for investigation, remediation, and removal of hazardous materials and other waste products on property owners and those who dispose of materials at waste sites whether or not the waste was disposed of legally at the time in question. We are currently addressing environmental remediation at certain former facilities, and we have been named as a potentially responsible party along with other organizations in a number of environmental clean-up sites and may be named in connection with future sites. We are required to contribute to the costs of the investigation and remediation and have taken reserves in our financial statements for future costs deemed probable and estimable for these costs. Although we have estimated and reserved for future environmental investigation and remediation costs, the final resolution of these liabilities may significantly vary from our estimates and could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our contingencies associated with environmental matters are described in Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” which is included elsewhere in this report. Our sales to foreign countries expose us to risks and adverse changes in local legal, tax, and regulatory schemes. In fiscal 2012, 37% of our consolidated sales were to customers outside the United States. We expect international export sales to continue to contribute to our earnings for the foreseeable future. The export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. Such risks include, without limitation: • The possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • Potential negative consequences from changes to significant taxation policies, laws, or regulations; changes in market valuations of other similarly situated companies; • Changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or export licensing requirements; and • Political or economic instability, insurrection, civil disturbance, or war. Government regulations could limit our ability to sell our products outside the United States and otherwise adversely affect our business. In fiscal 2012, approximately 24% of our sales were subject to compliance with the United States Export Administration regulations. Our failure to obtain the requisite licenses, meet registration standards or comply with other government export regulations would hinder our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products outside the United States. Compliance with these government regulations may also subject us to 10 Table of Contents additional fees and operating costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In order to sell our products in European Union countries, we must satisfy certain technical requirements. If we are unable to comply with those requirements with respect to a significant quantity of our products, our sales in Europe would be restricted. Doing business internationally also subjects us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, foreign corrupt practices and anti-boycott provisions. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which would have a material adverse effect on us. While we believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls, and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. The terms of our credit agreement may restrict our current and future operating and financial flexibility. The credit agreement that is in effect with respect to our debt includes covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; • redeem or repurchase stock; • create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create, incur, assume or permit any liens on any asset; • make loans and investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • issue additional shares of our capital stock; • change our organizational documents; and • change the nature of our business. Our credit agreement also contains covenants that require us to: • maintain a leverage ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated EBITDA not to exceed 2.50:1.00; and • maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.25:1.00. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to comply with the covenants under our credit agreement in the future. A failure to comply with the covenants under our credit agreement could result in an event of default. In the event of a default our lender could elect to declare all borrowings, accrued and unpaid interest and other fees outstanding, due and payable, and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks that could adversely affect our business and operating results. Changes in the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating could cause the cost of doing business to increase, limit the ability to fund the development of products, and place us at a competitive disadvantage. The current contraction in credit markets could impact our ability to finance our operations. Our operations are conducted at a single location. The risk that substantial impairment of our facility as a consequence of a natural disaster or other event could have a material adverse effect on operations. We depend on component availability, subcontractor performance, and key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. We are dependent upon the delivery of component parts by suppliers and, to some extent, the assembly of components and subsystems used by us in manufacturing our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and to remain in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. We are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. In some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. If any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, the development of alternatives could cause delays and increased costs in meeting customer requirements. While we may enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. If we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, the ability to satisfactorily and timely meet customer obligations could be negatively impacted, which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships. We could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic conditions. We currently generate operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets, provides discretionary funding capacity. However, current uncertainty in the global economic conditions resulting from the recent disruption in credit markets poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact consumer and customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. If the current economic situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products from a slow-down in the general economy, or supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets. Our future growth and continued success is dependent upon retaining key employees. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management personnel and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management personnel. We face competition for management from other companies and organizations, and therefore may not be able to retain our existing management personnel or fill new management positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at existing compensation levels. We have entered into change of control agreements with some members of senior management and have made efforts to reduce the effect of the loss of senior management personnel through management succession planning. The loss of senior managers could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, competition for qualified technical personnel in our industry is intense, and management believes that our future growth and success will depend upon the ability to attract, train, and retain such personnel. 12 Table of Contents Our profitability could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. Approximately 29% of our workforce is employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers (UAW), which from time to time is subject to renewal and negotiation. Although we have historically enjoyed satisfactory relations with both our unionized and non-unionized employees, if we are subject to labor actions, we may experience an adverse impact on our operating results. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our business. Intellectual property is important to our success. We rely upon confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our business and proprietary technology. Our general policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants, and nondisclosure agreements with all other parties to whom we disclose confidential information. We may apply for legal protection for certain of our other intellectual property in the future. These patents, trademarks and any additional legal protection we may obtain in the future may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. As a result, our means of protecting our proprietary technology and brands may be inadequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. As a defense contractor, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information; threats to the security of our facility and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities, essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. We use estimates when competing for contracts. Variances between actual and estimates could affect our profitability and overall financial position. The competitive bidding process requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards, price escalations, or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock is thinly traded and subject to volatility. Although our common stock is traded on the NYSE MKT (formerly NYSE Amex), it may remain relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded,” which can increase volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to 13 Table of Contents buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the quoted share price. Further, investors seeking to buy or sell a certain quantity of our shares in the public market may be unable to do so within one or more trading days. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for holders to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. The prevailing market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results; • Changes in market valuations of other similarly situated companies; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Future sales of common stock; • Any deviations in net revenues or in losses from levels expected by the investment community; • Trading volume fluctuations; and • Business pressures on any of our large shareholders resulting from their holdings in other unrelated businesses. Our share ownership is highly concentrated. Our directors, officers, and principal stockholders, and certain of their affiliates, beneficially own approximately 63% of our common stock and will continue to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan which could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company. We adopted a shareholders rights plan which is intended to protect us from efforts to obtain control of the Company that are inconsistent with the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The rights will be exercisable ten days following the earlier of the public announcement that a stockholder has acquired 10% or more of our common stock without Board approval or the announcement of a tender offer which results in the ownership of 10% or more of our common stock. The rights also will become exercisable if a person or group that already owns 10% or more of the Company’s common stock, without Board approval, acquires any additional shares (other than pursuant to the Company’s employee benefit plans). If the rights become exercisable, all rights holders (other than the person triggering the rights) will be entitled to acquire Company securities at a substantial discount. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take over the Company without the approval of the Board of Directors, the rights plan could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company or a significant percentage of the outstanding capital stock, without first negotiating with the Board of Directors. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will depend upon our earnings (if any), financial condition and capital requirements. We do not have any plans at this time to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any potential investor who anticipates the need for current dividends from its investment should not purchase any of our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents 