Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Disclosure Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules EX-3.2: BYLAWS EX-10.25: NET LEASE AGREEMENT EX-23.1: CONSENT OF MARGOLIS & COMPANY P.C. EX-23.2: CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION 2 Table of Contents PART I SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 AND SECTION 21E OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934: Certain of the statements contained in the body of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 (“Report”) are forward-looking statements (rather than historical facts) that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. In the preparation of this Report, where such forward-looking statements appear, the Company has sought to accompany such statements with meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. A description of the principal risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company’s business is included herein under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Readers of this Report are encouraged to read these cautionary statements carefully. ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Breeze-Eastern Corporation, formerly TransTechnology Corporation, designs, develops, manufactures, sells and services sophisticated lifting equipment for specialty aerospace and defense applications. The Company was originally organized in 1962 as a California corporation and reincorporated in Delaware in 1986. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to the “Company” or the “Registrant” or “Breeze-Eastern” refer to Breeze-Eastern Corporation (including the California corporation prior to the reincorporation) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. Accordingly, all references to years in this Report refer to the fiscal year ended March 31 of the indicated year unless otherwise specified. CORE BUSINESS Breeze-Eastern’s core business is aerospace and defense products. Breeze-Eastern is the world’s leading designer, manufacturer, service provider, and supplier of performance-critical rescue hoists and cargo hook systems. Breeze-Eastern also manufactures weapons handling systems, cargo winches, and tie-down equipment. These products are sold primarily to military and civilian agencies and aerospace contractors. Our emphasis is on the engineering, assembly, and testing of our products. Further, we are at work on designing the next generation of rescue hoists in order to enable us to maintain our core business. PRODUCTS Breeze-Eastern has three operating segments which it aggregates into one reportable segment. The operating segments are Hoist and Winch, Cargo Hooks, and Weapons Handling. The nature of the production process (assemble, inspect, and test) is similar for each operating segment, as are the customers and the methods of distribution for the products. Breeze-Eastern’s weapons handling systems range from weapons handling equipment on fighting vehicles to hoisting weapons into position on carrier-based aircraft. Management believes that Breeze-Eastern is the industry market share leader in sales of personnel-rescue hoists and cargo hook equipment. As a pioneer of helicopter hoist technology, Breeze-Eastern continues to develop sophisticated helicopter hoist and winch systems, including systems for the current generation of Blackhawk, Seahawk, Osprey, Chinook, Ecureuil, Dolphin, Merlin/Cormorant, Super Stallion, Changhe Z-11, Agusta A109 Power, Agusta A119, and AgustaWestland AW139 helicopters. Breeze-Eastern also supplies equipment for the United States, Japanese and European Multiple-Launch Rocket Systems, and the United States High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS), which uses specialized hoists to load and unload rocket pod containers. Breeze-Eastern’s external cargo hook systems are original equipment on most medium and heavy lift helicopters manufactured today. These hook systems range from small 1,000-pound capacity models up to the largest 36,000-pound capacity hooks employed on the Super Stallion helicopter. Breeze-Eastern also manufactures aircraft and cargo tie-downs. Breeze-Eastern sells its products through internal marketing representatives and several independent sales representatives and distributors for all operating segments. The Company’s product backlog varies substantially from time to time due to the size and timing of orders. At March 31, 2008, the 3 Table of Contents backlog of unfilled orders was $124.3 million (of which $87.2 million is not expected to ship within fiscal 2009), compared to $119.2 million at March 31, 2007. The increase in the backlog is mainly attributable to a $3.7 million contract for the system design and development of a recovery winch for the Field Recovery and Maintenance Recovery Vehicle (FRMV) being developed for the U.S. Army under the Future Combat Systems (FCS) program. Also included in the backlog at March 31, 2008 are three orders totaling approximately $65.0 million related to the Airbus A400M aircraft. These three orders are scheduled to be shipped starting in late calendar 2009 and continuing through 2020. MAJOR CUSTOMERS Breeze-Eastern has two major customers, the U.S. Government and Finmeccanica SpA, representing 26% and 19%, respectively, of the total consolidated net sales for fiscal 2008. COMPONENTS, RAW MATERIAL AND SEASONALITY The various component parts and, to some extent, assembly of components and subsystems by subcontractors used by the Company to produce its products are generally available from more than one source. In those instances where only a single source for any material is available, such items can generally be redesigned to accommodate materials made by other suppliers, although this may lead to delays in meeting the requirements of our customers. In some cases, the Company stocks an adequate supply of the single source materials for use until a new supplier can be approved. In recent years, our revenues in the second half of the fiscal year have generally exceeded revenues in the first half. The timing of U.S. Government awards, the availability of U.S. Government funding and product deliveries are among the factors affecting the periods in which revenues are recorded. We expect this trend to continue in fiscal 2009. EMPLOYEES At March 31, 2008, the Company had approximately 192 salaried and hourly employees. The United Auto Workers (UAW) represents certain hourly employees at our sole facility in Union, New Jersey. A five year labor agreement was reached with the UAW in October 2004. The Company considers its relationship with its employees to be good. FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND SALES The Company has no foreign-based operations. The Company had export sales of $34.5 million, $31.7 million, and $30.9 million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, representing 45%, 43%, and 48% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in each of those years, respectively. The risk and profitability attendant to these sales is generally comparable to similar products sold by the Company in the United States. Net export sales by geographic area and domicile of customers are set forth in Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” which is included elsewhere in this Report. OTHER INFORMATION Financial results, news, and other information about Breeze-Eastern can be accessed from the Company’s web site at http://www.breeze-eastern.com. This site includes important information on products and services, financial reports, news releases, and career opportunities. The Company’s periodic and current reports, including exhibits and supplemental schedules filed herewith, and amendments to those reports, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on the Company’s web site, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information that can be accessed through the Company’s web site is not incorporated by reference in this Report and, accordingly, you should not consider that information part of this Report. The reports noted above may also be obtained at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and information regarding SEC registrants, including Breeze-Eastern. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, 4 Table of Contents financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted if any of these risks materialize. Additional risk factors not currently known to us or that we believe are immaterial also may impair our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock may also decline as a result of these risks. We are subject to competition from entities which could have a substantial impact on our business. The Company competes in some markets with entities that are larger and have substantially greater financial and technical resources than the Company. Generally, competitive factors include design capabilities, product performance, delivery and price. The Company’s ability to compete successfully in such markets will depend on its ability to develop and apply technological innovations and to expand its customer base and product lines. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to successfully compete in any or all of the businesses discussed above. The failure of the Company to compete successfully could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. A substantial amount of our revenue is derived from U.S. Government contracts. Approximately 26% of our consolidated net sales in 2008, as compared to 33% and 29% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, were derived from sales to the U.S. Government, principally the military services of the Department of Defense, and are therefore affected by, among other things, the federal budget authorization and appropriation processes. These contracts typically contain precise performance specifications and are subject to customary provisions which give the U.S. Government the contractual right of termination for convenience. In the event of termination for convenience, we are typically protected by provisions allowing reimbursement for costs incurred as well as payment of any applicable fees or profits. A decrease in the U.S. Government defense spending, changes in spending allocation or the termination, postponement, or failure by the U.S. Government to fund one or more significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Cancellations of purchase orders or reductions of product quantity requirements in existing contracts could materially reduce our backlog. A discussion of the risks associated with the Company’s backlog is set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” which is included elsewhere in this Report. Our potential tax benefits from net operating loss carry forwards are subject to a number of risks. A discussion of the risks attendant to realization of the tax benefit from net operating losses is set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” which is included elsewhere in this Report. We may be liable for all or a portion of the environmental clean-up costs at sites previously owned or leased by the Company (or by corporations acquired by the Company). Due primarily to federal and state legislation which imposes liability, regardless of fault, upon commercial product manufacturers for environmental impact caused by chemicals, processes, and practices that were commonly and lawfully used prior to the enactment of such legislation, the Company may be liable for all or a portion of the environmental clean-up costs at sites previously owned or leased by the Company (or by corporations acquired or sold by the Company). The Company’s contingencies associated with environmental matters are described in Note 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” which is included elsewhere in this Report. Our liquidity requirements and capital resources depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. A discussion of the Company’s liquidity requirements and attendant risks is set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” which is included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our common stock is thinly traded and subject to volatility. Although our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”), it may remain relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded,” which can enhance volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the quoted share price. Further, investors seeking to buy or sell a certain quantity of our shares in the public market may be unable to do so within one or more trading days. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for holders to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. 5 Table of Contents The prevailing market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • Changes in market valuations of other similarly situated companies; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Future sales of common stock; • Any deviations in net revenues or in losses from levels expected by the investment community; and • Trading volume fluctuations. We depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. We are dependent upon the delivery of component parts by suppliers and, to some extent, the assembly of components and subsystems used by us in the manufacture of our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. We are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. In some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. If any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, the development of alternatives could cause delays in meeting the requirements of our customers. While we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. If we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. We could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. The United Auto Workers (UAW) represents certain hourly employees at our sole facility in Union, New Jersey. A five year labor agreement was reached with the UAW in October 2004. If the collective bargaining agreement relating to our unionized employees is not successfully renegotiated prior to its expiration, we could face work stoppages or labor strikes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 