Item 1A. Risk Factors” beginning on page 6 of this report and “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us, or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing. Except as required by law, we assume no duty to update or revise our forward-looking statements based on changes in internal estimates, expectations, or otherwise. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Breeze-Eastern Corporation, a Delaware corporation, designs, develops, manufactures, sells and services sophisticated engineered mission equipment for specialty aerospace and defense applications. We were originally organized in 1962 as a California corporation and reincorporated in Delaware in 1986. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to the “Company,” the “Registrant,” “Breeze-Eastern,” “we” or “us” refer to Breeze-Eastern Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. All references to years in this report refer to the fiscal year ended March 31 of the indicated year unless otherwise specified. This report reflects all adjustments of a normal recurring nature, which are, in the opinion of management, necessary for fair presentation of the results of operations for the periods reflected. Certain prior fiscal year amounts may have been reclassified to conform to the current fiscal year presentation. CORE BUSINESS Our core business is aerospace and defense products. We believe we are the world’s leading designer, manufacturer, service provider, and supplier of mission-critical electric and hydraulic rescue hoists and cargo hook systems. We also manufacture weapons handling systems, cargo winches, and tie-down equipment. These products are sold primarily to military and civilian agencies and aerospace contractors. Our emphasis is on the engineering, assembly, testing, service, and support of our products. 3 Table of Contents PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our products and related services aggregate into one reportable segment. The nature of the production process (assemble, inspect, and test), customers, and product distribution are similar for all products. We sell our products through internal marketing representatives and independent sales representatives and distributors. PRODUCTS Products include new equipment and spare parts sales and represented approximately 74%, 72%, and 71% of our total revenues in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively. As a pioneer of helicopter rescue hoist technology, we continue to develop sophisticated helicopter hoist and winch systems, including systems for the current generation of Blackhawk, Seahawk, Osprey, Chinook, Ecureuil, Dolphin, Merlin/Cormorant, Super Stallion, Changhe Z-11, Agusta A109, Agusta A119, AgustaWestland AW139, and AgustaWestland Future Lynx helicopters. We also design, market, sell and service a broad line of hydraulic and electric aircraft cargo winch systems with capacities from 900 pounds to over 7,000 pounds. Sales of hoist and winch products accounted for approximately 57%, 51%, and 46% of our total revenues in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Our external cargo hook systems are original equipment on leading military medium and heavy lift helicopters. These hook systems range from smaller 1,000-pound capacity models up to the largest 36,000-pound capacity hooks employed on the Super Stallion helicopter. Our latest designs incorporate load sensing and display technology and automatic load release features. We also manufacture cargo and aircraft tie-downs which are included in this product line. Sales of cargo hook products accounted for approximately 12%, 14%, and 16% of our total revenues in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively. We make static-line retrieval and cargo winches for military cargo aircraft including the Boeing C-17, Alenia C-27J, and CASA CN-235, and CASA C-295. In addition, we have a contract with Airbus to develop and produce three products for the new cargo positioning and restraint system for the A400M cargo aircraft and will be the sole supplier of these products with anticipated delivery beginning after Fiscal 2012. Once our products are qualified and approved for use with a particular aircraft model, sales of products and services generally continue over the life of the aircraft model, which is usually decades. It is expensive and difficult for a second supplier’s product to become qualified and approved on the same aircraft. Our weapons handling systems include weapons handling equipment for land-based rocket launchers and munitions hoists for loading missiles and other loads using electric power or exchangeable battery packs. We supply this equipment for the United States, Japanese, and European Multiple-Launch Rocket Systems (MLRS) and the United States High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS). We also provide actuators and specialty gearboxes for specialty weapons applications. Sales of weapons handling products accounted for approximately 5%, 7%, and 9% of our total revenues in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively. SERVICES Services include overhaul and repair and engineering sales and represented 26%, 28%, and 29% of our total revenues in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively. We perform overhaul, repair, and maintenance services for all of our products. Most of these services are performed at our Whippany, New Jersey facility. We have also licensed third-party vendors around the world to perform these services. Overhaul and repair represented 22%, 24%, and 23% of our total revenues in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively. In addition to performing research and development to design new products, improve existing products, and add new features to our product line, we also provide engineering services to adapt our products to customer specific needs and aircraft models on a fee-for-service basis. We discuss segment information in Note 14 of our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained elsewhere in this report. 4 Table of Contents MAJOR CUSTOMERS We have three major customers: the U.S. Government, United Technologies Corporation and Finmeccanica SpA, which accounted for 28%, 21%, and 16%, respectively, of the total consolidated net sales for Fiscal 2011. GOVERNMENT SALES Our direct sales to the U.S. Government and sales for U.S. Government and foreign government end use represented 69%, 67%, and 68% of consolidated revenue during Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively. U.S. Government sales, both direct and indirect, are generally made under standard government contracts including fixed price and cost plus. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. Government agencies. In accordance with normal practice, contracts and orders with the U.S. Government are subject to partial or complete termination at any time, at the option of the customer. In the event of a termination for convenience by the government, there generally are provisions for recovery of our allowable incurred costs and a proportionate share of the profit or fee on the work completed, consistent with regulations of the U.S. Government. BACKLOG We measure backlog by the amount of products or services that customers committed by contract to purchase as of a given date. Backlog at March 31, 2011 was $131,151 as compared with $130,144 at March 31, 2010 as new orders exceeded shipments in Fiscal 2011. Approximately $87,635 of our backlog at March 31, 2011 is not scheduled for shipment during the next twelve months. For additional discussion on our backlog, see “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” COMPONENTS, RAW MATERIALS, AND SEASONALITY The various component parts and, to some extent, assembly of components and subsystems by subcontractors used by us to produce our products are generally available from more than one source. In those instances where only a single source for any material or part is available, such items can generally be redesigned to accommodate materials or parts made by other suppliers, although this may lead to delays in meeting customer requirements. In some cases, we stock an adequate supply of the single source materials or parts for use until a new supplier can be approved. In recent years, our revenues in the second half of our fiscal year have generally exceeded revenues in the first half. The timing of U.S. Government awards, availability of U.S. Government funding, and product deliveries are among the factors affecting the periods in which revenues are recorded. Management expects this trend to continue in Fiscal 2012. EMPLOYEES As of March 31, 2011, we had 164 salaried and hourly employees, and the United Auto Workers (UAW) represented 51 hourly employees at our facility. We reached a new three-year collective bargaining agreement with the UAW in November 2010 and consider our relations, with both our union and non-union employees, to be generally satisfactory. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND SALES We currently have no operations based outside of the United States. We had export sales of $28,598, $27,912, and $32,688 in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively, representing 37%, 40%, and 43% of our consolidated net sales in each of those years. The risks and profitability of international sales are generally comparable with similar products sold by us in the United States. Net export sales by geographic area and customer domicile are set forth in Note 14 of our financial statements contained elsewhere in this report. 5 Table of Contents COMPETITION We compete in some markets with the hoist and winch business unit of the Goodrich Corporation, which as a whole is a larger corporation that has substantially greater financial and technical resources than us. Generally, competitive factors include design capabilities, product performance, delivery, and price. Our ability to compete successfully in these markets depends on our ability to develop and apply technological innovations and to expand our customer base and product lines. Technological innovation, development, and application requires significant investment and capital expenditures. While we make each investment with the intent of getting a good financial return, in some cases we may not fully recover the full investment through future sales of products or services. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We conduct extensive research and development activities, primarily for developing new or improved products, under customer-sponsored contracts and with our own funding. Research and development costs, which are charged to selling, general, and administrative expense when incurred, amounted to $1,347, $1,848, and $1,689 for the years ended March 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Customer-sponsored research and development costs are charged to cost of sales when the associated revenue is recognized and were $2,323, $3,016, and $5,194 in Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010, and Fiscal 2009, respectively. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We have been the market leader since the initial development of rescue hoists for use on helicopters and have continually designed and manufactured rescue hoists since the 1940’s. Our intellectual property product knowledge enables us to continually evolve mission-critical products to meet our customers’ evolving needs. We generally retain the intellectual property rights to products we develop which typically lasts for the life of the product. REGULATORY MATTERS Aircraft Regulation In the United States, our aircraft products are required to comply with Federal Aviation Administration regulations governing production and quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety. Internationally, similar requirements exist for airworthiness, installation and operational approvals. These requirements are generally administered by the national aviation authorities of each country and, in the case of Europe, coordinated by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). Environmental Matters We maintain compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to materials used in production and to the discharge of wastes, and other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. The costs of such compliance at our Whippany, New Jersey facility are not material to our operations. We are subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment, including those for the remediation of contaminated sites relating to predecessor entities and previously-owned subsidiaries. At various times, we have been identified as a potentially responsible party pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), and analogous state environmental laws, for the cleanup of contamination resulting from past disposals of hazardous wastes at certain former facilities and at sites to which we, among others, sent wastes in the past. CERCLA requires potentially responsible persons to pay for cleanup of sites from which there has been a release or threatened release of hazardous substances. Courts have interpreted CERCLA to impose strict joint and several liabilities on all persons liable for cleanup costs. As a practical matter, however, at sites where there are multiple potentially responsible persons, the costs of cleanup typically are allocated among the parties according to a volumetric or other standard. Where appropriate, we have sought contribution to remediation costs from other potentially responsible parties and made claims under available insurance policies. We also periodically assess the amount of reserves held for environmental liabilities for these sites based upon current information. While there is an inherent uncertainty in assessing the potential total cost to investigate and remediate a given site, we make a determination as to the reasonable 6 Table of Contents cost of investigation and remediation of each site based upon the information available to us at that time. Furthermore, the remediation efforts for a particular site may take place over a number of years and therefore a significant portion of the expenses represented by these reserves may not be incurred for some time. Factors that affect the actual liability for these sites include changes in federal and state environmental laws resulting in more stringent remediation requirements and actual operating results from remediation efforts which vary from estimated results. Information concerning our specific environmental liabilities and reserves is contained in Note 13 of our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained elsewhere in this report. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We maintain a website at http://www.breeze-eastern.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, which we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on our web site, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference in this Report and, accordingly, readers should not consider such information to be part of this Report. The reports noted above may also be obtained at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and information regarding SEC registrants, including Breeze-Eastern. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently deem to be material and that we believe are specific to our company and our industry. In addition to these risks, our business may be subject to risks currently unknown to us. If any of these or other risks actually occurs, our business may be adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with our Business and/or Industry A substantial amount of our revenue is derived from the U.S. Government, Finmeccanica SpA, and United Technologies Corporation; a termination or reduction in the volume of business with any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profits. Approximately 28%, 21%, and 16% of our consolidated net sales in Fiscal 2011 were to the U.S. Government (direct), United Technologies Corporation and Finmeccanica SpA, respectively. These sales are made principally for the benefit of the military services of the U.S. Department of Defense and defense organizations of other countries and are affected by, among other things, budget authorization and appropriation processes. In the event that defense expenditures are reduced for products we manufacture or services we provide and are not offset by revenues from additional foreign sales, new programs, or products or services that we currently manufacture or provide, we may experience a reduction in our revenues and earnings and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that our significant customers will continue to buy our products and services at current or increased levels. We depend heavily on government contracts that may not be fully funded or may be terminated, and the failure to receive funding or the termination of one or more of these contracts could reduce our sales and increase our costs. Sales to the U.S. Government and its prime contractors and subcontractors represent a significant portion of our business. In Fiscal 2011, sales under U.S. Government contracts represented approximately 59% of our total sales. Sales to foreign governments represented approximately 10% of our total sales. We expect that the percentage of our revenues from government contracts will continue to be substantial in the future. Government programs can be structured into a series of individual contracts. The funding of these programs is generally subject to annual congressional appropriations, and congressional priorities are subject to change. In addition, government expenditures for defense programs may decline or these defense programs may be terminated. A decline in government 7 Table of Contents expenditures or redirection of government funding may result in a reduction in the volume of contracts awarded to us. We have resources applied to specific government contracts and if any of those contracts were terminated, we may incur substantial costs redeploying those resources. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations and any non-compliance could subject us to fines, penalties or debarment. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, contract termination, or debarment from bidding on future contracts. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks, or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by government agencies. The failure to comply with the terms of government contracts could harm our business reputation and could also result in progress payments being withheld. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. Government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of a contractor’s compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties as well as administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. The U. S. Government has the right to terminate or not renew any contract with us at any time and without notice. Any such action would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In some instances, laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any government contract and, in general, subcontracts, at its convenience as well as for default based on performance. Upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if contract completion would have resulted in a loss. Upon termination for convenience of a cost-reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Such allowable costs would normally include the cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. A termination arising from default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor. In addition, our U.S. Government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. The U.S. Government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the U.S. Government is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. 8 Table of Contents The aircraft manufacturing industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer. Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all aviation products. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries. We include, with some of the products we sell to our aircraft manufacturing customers, documentation certifying that each part complies with applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to sell our products, we and the products we manufacture must also be certified by our individual OEM customers. If any of the material authorizations or approvals qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the subject product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Cancellations, reductions, or delays in customer orders may adversely affect our results of operations. Our overall operating results are affected by many factors, including the timing of orders from large customers and the timing of expenditures to manufacture parts and purchase inventory in anticipation of future sales of products and services. A large portion of our operating expenses are relatively fixed. Cancellations, reductions, or delays in customer orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation at any time without notice, which could negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed by contract to purchase from us. Backlog as of March 31, 2011 was $131,151. Backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future sales. The U.S. Government may unilaterally modify or cancel its contracts with us. In addition, under certain of our commercial contracts, our customers may unilaterally modify or terminate their orders at any time for their convenience. Accordingly, certain portions of our backlog can be cancelled or reduced at the option of the U.S. Government and commercial customers. Our failure to replace cancelled or reduced backlog could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. We are subject to competition from entities which could have a substantial impact on our business. We compete in some markets with entities that are larger and have substantially greater financial and technical resources than us. Generally, competitive factors include design capabilities, product performance, delivery, and price. Our ability to compete successfully in such markets will depend on our ability to develop and apply technological innovations and to expand our customer base and product lines. In addition, the development and application of technological innovations may mandate an expenditure of significant capital which may not be recovered through future sales of products or services. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully compete in any or all of the businesses discussed above. Our failure to compete successfully or to invest in technology where there is no recovery through product sales could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. Our potential tax benefits from net operating loss carry forwards are subject to a number of risks. We have federal and state net operating loss carry forwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $15,335 and $4,462, respectively. Our NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income through their respective expiration dates and thereby reduce or eliminate our federal and state income taxes otherwise payable. If we do not generate adequate taxable earnings, some or all of our net operating loss carry forwards may not be realized. Additionally, changes to the federal and state income tax laws also could impact its ability to use the NOLs. In such cases, we may need to 9 Table of Contents revise the valuation allowance established related to deferred tax assets for state purposes. The risks to realizing the tax benefit from NOLs are discussed in additional detail in Note 5 of our financial statement contained elsewhere in this report. We are subject to liability under environmental laws. Our business and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and other waste products. Environmental laws generally impose liability for investigation, remediation, and removal of hazardous materials and other waste products on property owners and those who dispose of materials at waste sites whether or not the waste was disposed of legally at the time in question. We are currently addressing environmental remediation at certain former facilities, and we have been named as a potentially responsible party along with other organizations in a number of environmental clean-up sites and may be named in connection with future sites. We are required to contribute to the costs of the investigation and remediation and have taken reserves in our financial statements for future costs deemed probable and estimable for these costs. Although we have estimated and reserved for future environmental investigation and remediation costs, the final resolution of these liabilities may significantly vary from our estimates and could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our contingencies associated with environmental matters are described in Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” which is included elsewhere in this Report. Our sales to foreign countries expose us to risks and adverse changes in local legal, tax, and regulatory schemes. In Fiscal 2011, 37% of our consolidated sales were to customers outside the United States. We expect international export sales to continue to contribute to our earnings for the foreseeable future. The export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. Such risks include, without limitation: • The possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; • Potential negative consequences from changes to significant taxation policies, laws, or regulations; • Changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or export licensing requirements; and • Political or economic instability, insurrection, civil disturbance, or war. Government regulations could limit our ability to sell our products outside the United States and otherwise adversely affect our business. In Fiscal 2011, approximately 20% of our sales were subject to compliance with the United States Export Administration regulations. Our failure to obtain the requisite licenses, meet registration standards or comply with other government export regulations would hinder our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products outside the United States. Compliance with these government regulations may also subject us to additional fees and operating costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In order to sell our products in European Union countries, we must satisfy certain technical requirements. If we are unable to comply with those requirements with respect to a significant quantity of our products, our sales in Europe would be restricted. Doing business internationally also subjects us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, foreign corrupt practices and anti-boycott provisions. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which would have a material adverse effect on us. While we believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls, and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief 10 Table of Contents Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. The terms of our credit agreement may restrict our current and future operating and financial flexibility. The credit agreement that is in effect with respect to our debt includes covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • engage in mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions • redeem or repurchase stock; • create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create, incur, assume or permit any liens on any asset; • make loans and investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • issue additional shares of our capital stock; • change our organizational documents; and • change the nature of our business. Our credit agreement also contains covenants that require us to: • maintain a leverage ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated EBITDA not to exceed 2.50:1.00; and • maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.25:1.00. We may be unable to comply with the covenants under our credit agreement in the future. A failure to comply with the covenants under our credit agreement could result in an event of default. In the event of a default our lender could elect to declare all borrowings, accrued and unpaid interest and other fees outstanding, due and payable, and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks that could adversely affect our business and operating results. Changes in the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating could cause the cost of doing business to increase, limit the ability to fund the development of products, and place us at a competitive disadvantage. The current contraction in credit markets could impact our ability to finance our operations. 11 Table of Contents Our operations are conducted at a single location. The risk that substantial impairment of our facility as a consequence of a natural disaster or other event could have a material adverse effect on operations. We depend on component availability, subcontractor performance, and key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. We are dependent upon the delivery of component parts by suppliers and, to some extent, the assembly of components and subsystems used by us in manufacturing our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and to remain in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. We are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. In some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. If any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, the development of alternatives could cause delays in meeting the customer requirements. While we may enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. If we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, the ability to satisfactorily and timely meet customer obligations could be negatively impacted, which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships. We could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic conditions. We currently generate operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets, provides discretionary funding capacity. However, current uncertainty in the global economic conditions resulting from the recent disruption in credit markets poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact consumer and customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. If the current economic situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products from a slow-down in the general economy, or supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets. Our future growth and continued success is dependent upon retaining key employees. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management personnel and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management personnel. We face competition for management from other companies and organizations, and therefore may not be able to retain our existing management personnel or fill new management positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at existing compensation levels. We have entered into change of control agreements with some members of senior management and have made efforts to reduce the effect of the loss of senior management personnel through management succession planning. The loss of senior managers could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, competition for qualified technical personnel in our industry is intense, and management believes that our future growth and success will depend upon the ability to attract, train, and retain such personnel. Our profitability could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. Approximately 30% of our workforce is employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers (UAW), which from time to time is subject to renewal and negotiation. Although we have historically enjoyed satisfactory relations with both our unionized and non-unionized employees, if we are subject to labor actions, we may experience an adverse impact on our operating results. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our business. Intellectual property is important to our success. We rely upon confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our business and proprietary technology. Our general policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants, and nondisclosure agreements with all other parties to whom we 12 Table of Contents disclose confidential information. We may apply for legal protection for certain of our other intellectual property in the future. These patents, trademarks and any additional legal protection we may obtain in the future may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. As a result, our means of protecting our proprietary technology and brands may be inadequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use estimates when competing for contracts. Variances between actual and estimates could affect our profitability and overall financial position. The competitive bidding process requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards, price escalations, or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock is thinly traded and subject to volatility. Although our common stock is traded on the NYSE Amex (formerly American Stock Exchange), it may remain relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded,” which can increase volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the quoted share price. Further, investors seeking to buy or sell a certain quantity of our shares in the public market may be unable to do so within one or more trading days. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for holders to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. The prevailing market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results; • Changes in market valuations of other similarly situated companies; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Future sales of common stock; • Any deviations in net revenues or in losses from levels expected by the investment community; • Trading volume fluctuations; and • Business pressures on any of our large shareholders resulting from their holdings in other unrelated businesses. Our share ownership is highly concentrated. Our directors, officers, and principal stockholders, and certain of their affiliates, beneficially own approximately 64% of our common stock and will continue to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors. 13 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will depend upon our earnings (if any), financial condition and capital requirements. We do not have any plans at this time to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any potential investor who anticipates the need for current dividends from its investment should not purchase any of our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 