ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted if any of these risks materialize. The trading price of our common stock may also decline as a result of these risks. A substantial amount of our revenue is derived from the U.S. Government, Finmeccanica SpA and United Technologies Corporation. Approximately 20%, 19% and 16% of our consolidated net sales in 2009 were derived from sales to the U.S. Government, Finmeccanica SpA and United Technologies Corporation, respectively. The sales to these customers are made principally for the benefit of the military services of the U.S. Department of Defense and defense organizations of other countries and are therefore affected by, among other things, the budget authorization and appropriation processes. A significant decrease in sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. We are subject to competition from entities which could have a substantial impact on our business. The Company competes in some markets with entities that are larger and have substantially greater financial and technical resources than the Company. Generally, competitive factors include design capabilities, product performance, delivery and price. The Company’s ability to compete successfully in such markets will depend on its ability to develop and apply technological innovations and to expand its customer base and product lines. In addition, the development and application of technological innovations may mandate an expenditure of significant capital which may not be recovered through future sales of products. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to successfully compete in any or all of the businesses discussed above. The failure of the Company to compete successfully or to invest in technology where there is no recovery through product sales could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks, or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by government agencies. The failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could harm our business reputation. It could also result in our progress payments being withheld. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at its convenience as well as for default based on performance. Upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. Upon termination for convenience of a cost reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Such allowable costs would normally include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. 5 A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor. In addition, our U.S. Government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. The U.S. Government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. Our future growth and continued success is dependent upon our key personnel. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management personnel and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management personnel. We face competition for management from other companies and organizations. Therefore, we may not be able to retain our existing management personnel or fill new management positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at our existing compensation levels. We have entered into change of control agreements with some members of senior management. We have made a concerted effort to reduce the effect of the loss of our senior management personnel through management succession planning. The loss of members of our senior management group could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, competition for qualified technical personnel in our industry is intense, and we believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train, and retain such personnel. Cancellations, reductions or delays in customer orders may adversely affect our results of operations. Our overall operating results are affected by many factors, including the timing of orders from large customers and the timing of expenditures to manufacture parts and purchase inventory in anticipation of future sales of products and services. A large portion of our operating expenses are relatively fixed. Cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by a customer or group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A further discussion of the risks associated with the Company’s backlog is set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” which is included elsewhere in this Report. Our potential tax benefits from net operating loss carry forwards are subject to a number of risks. A discussion of the risks attendant to realization of the tax benefit from net operating losses is set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” which is included elsewhere in this Report. We may be liable for all or a portion of the environmental clean-up costs at sites previously owned or leased by the Company (or by corporations acquired by the Company). Due primarily to federal and state legislation which imposes liability, regardless of fault, upon commercial product manufacturers for environmental impact caused by chemicals, processes, and practices that were commonly and lawfully used prior to the enactment of such legislation, the Company may be liable for all or a portion of the environmental clean-up costs at sites previously owned or leased by the Company (or by corporations acquired or sold by the Company). The Company’s contingencies associated with environmental matters are described in Note 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” which is included elsewhere in this Report. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. As a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. Government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor’s compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and 6 administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Our sales to foreign countries expose us to risks and adverse changes in local legal, tax and regulatory schemes. In fiscal 2009, 43% of our consolidated sales were from customers outside the United States. We expect international operations and export sales to continue to contribute to our earnings for the foreseeable future. The export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. Such risks include, without limitation, the following: • The possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • Potential negative consequences from changes to significant taxation policies, laws or regulations; hanges in market valuations of other similarly situated companies; • Changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or export licensing requirements; • Political or economic instability, insurrection, civil disturbance or war. Our liquidity requirements and capital resources depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. A discussion of the Company’s liquidity requirements and attendant risks is set forth in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” which is included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. While we believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls, and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Corporation have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks that could adversely affect our business and operating results. Changes in the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to fund the development of products and place us at a competitive disadvantage. The current contraction in credit markets could impact our ability to finance our operations. 7 We anticipate relocating to a new facility in fiscal 2010 We are planning the relocation of our corporate offices and manufacturing facility in fiscal 2010 to an existing building in Whippany, New Jersey. The associated lease agreement was executed on May 13, 2009, and is attached to this Report as Exhibit 10.34. The relocation will require the build out, within the existing structure, of offices and manufacturing space. Risks associated with the relocation include delays in receiving necessary permits and approvals, the failure of contractors to meet agreed construction milestones, the disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, and the possible loss of key employees as a consequence of the relocation. After the relocation, we will continue to be a business with our operations located at one site, which involves the risk that substantial impairment of our facility as a consequence of a natural disaster or other event could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our common stock is thinly traded and subject to volatility. Although our common stock is traded on the NYSE Amex (formerly American Stock Exchange) it may remain relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded,” which can enhance volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the quoted share price. Further, investors seeking to buy or sell a certain quantity of our shares in the public market may be unable to do so within one or more trading days. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for holders to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. The prevailing market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • Changes in market valuations of other similarly situated companies; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Future sales of common stock; • Any deviations in net revenues or in losses from levels expected by the investment community; and • Trading volume fluctuations. We depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. We are dependent upon the delivery of component parts by suppliers and, to some extent, the assembly of components and subsystems used by us in the manufacture of our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. We are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. In some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. If any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, the development of alternatives could cause delays in meeting the requirements of our customers. While we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. If we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted, which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. We could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic conditions. We currently generate operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets, provides us with discretionary funding capacity. However, current uncertainty in the global economic conditions resulting from the recent disruption in credit markets poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact consumer and customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. If the current situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products from a slow-down in the general economy, or supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets. Our profitability could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. The United Auto Workers (UAW) represents certain hourly employees at our sole facility in Union, New Jersey. A five year labor agreement was reached with the UAW in October 2004 and expires in October 2009. If the collective bargaining agreement relating to our unionized employees is not successfully renegotiated prior to its expiration, we could face work stoppages or labor strikes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 