Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those mentioned in forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements, and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of our Company. All known material risks and uncertainties are described below. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligations to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Volatility in the global financial markets may adversely affect our business and operating results. During periods of volatility in the global financial markets, certain of our customers could delay or otherwise reduce their purchases of railcars, barges, wind towers, and other products and services. If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product order volumes may decrease which could result in lower revenues. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products, or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials we purchase from them to manufacture our products. These actions could result in reductions in our revenues, increased price competition, or increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business results of operations and financial condition. Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of the level of our future revenues due to potential impacts from negative global economic conditions that may lead to raw materials and supplies shortages or requests for deferred deliveries of orders in our backlog. The lack of stability in the global economy, prevailing conditions in the global credit markets, volatility in the industries our products serve, changes in legislative policy, adverse changes in the financial condition of our customers for manufactured or leased products, adverse changes in the availability of raw materials and supplies, or un-remedied contract breaches could possibly lead to cancellations of orders in our backlog or increased requests for deferred deliveries of our backlog orders, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Our manufacturing backlog represents future production for which we have written orders from our customers for delivery in various periods, and estimated potential revenue attributable to those orders. The cyclical nature of our business results in lower revenues during economic downturns. We operate in cyclical industries. Downturns in overall economic conditions usually have a significant adverse effect on cyclical industries due to decreased demand for new and replacement products. Decreased demand could result in lower sales volumes, lower prices, and/or a loss of profits. The railcar, barge, and wind energy industries have previously experienced deep down cycles and at such times operated with a minimal backlog. Following a period of weak railcar demand that began in 2009, new orders for railcars improved significantly in 2011 due to increased demand for the shipment of commodities, replacement of older railcars, and federal tax benefits received from taking delivery of railcars in 2011 and 2012. Orders for structural wind towers have been slow since mid-2008 when energy development companies encountered tightened credit markets, lower demand for electricity and heightened competition arising from declining natural gas prices. The continued slowdown in the residential and commercial construction markets negatively impacted the results of our Construction Products Group as well. We continually assess our manufacturing capacity and take steps to align our production capacity with demand for our products. As a result of our assessment, we adapted to the rapid decline in market conditions that began in 2009 by reducing our production footprint and staffing levels and causing certain facilities to be on non-operating status. Due to improvements in demand, we increased production staff at certain facilities in late 2010 and during 2011. We expect that facilities on non-operating status will be available for future operations to the extent that demand further increases. 10 Table of Contents Litigation claims could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. We are currently, and may from time to time be, involved in various claims or legal proceedings arising out of our operations. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these matters could result in judgments against us for significant monetary damages that could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. We seek contractual recourse and indemnification in the ordinary course of business, maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liability, and purchase liability insurance at coverage levels based upon commercial norms in our industries in an effort to mitigate our liability exposures. Nevertheless, our reserves may be inadequate to cover the uninsured portion of claims or judgments. Any such claims or judgments could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, or overall financial condition. Increases in the price and demand for steel could lower our margins and profitability. The principal material used in our Rail, Inland Barge, and Energy Equipment Groups is steel. During 2011, the supply of steel was sufficient to support our manufacturing requirements. Market steel prices continue to exhibit short periods of volatility and ended 2011 significantly higher than 2010. Generally, we are able to mitigate the majority of this volatility through contract-specific purchasing practices and existing supplier commitments. Steel prices may continue to be volatile in part as a result of scrap surcharges assessed by steel mills and other market factors. We often use contract-specific purchasing practices, existing supplier commitments, contractual price escalation provisions, and other arrangements with our customers, to mitigate the effect of this volatility on our operating profits for the year. In general, we believe there is enough capacity in the supply industry to meet current production level demands. We believe the existing contracts and commercial relationships we have in place will meet our current production forecasts. However, any unanticipated interruption in our supply chain could have an adverse impact on both our margins and production schedules. We have potential exposure to environmental liabilities, which may increase costs and lower profitability. We are subject to comprehensive federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the release or discharge of materials into the environment; the management, use, processing, handling, storage, transport, and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste and materials; and other activities relating to the protection of human health and the environment. Such laws and regulations not only expose us to liability for our own acts, but also may expose us to liability for the acts of others or for our actions which were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time these actions were taken. In addition, such laws may require significant expenditures to achieve compliance, and are frequently modified or revised to impose new obligations. Civil and criminal fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. Our operations that involve hazardous materials also raise potential risks of liability under common law. Environmental operating permits are, or may be, required for our operations under these laws and regulations. These operating permits are subject to modification, renewal, and revocation. We regularly monitor and review our operations, procedures, and policies for compliance with our operating permits and related laws and regulations. Despite these compliance efforts, risk of environmental liability is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. We believe that our operations and facilities, whether owned, managed, or leased, are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that any non-compliance is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. However, future events, such as changes in, or modified interpretations of, existing environmental laws and regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards associated with our products, business activities, or properties, may give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. In addition to environmental laws, the transportation of commodities by railcar or barge raises potential risks in the event of a derailment, spill, or other accident. Generally, liability under existing law in the United States for a derailment, spill, or other accident depends on the negligence, if any, of the party, such as the railroad, the shipper, or the manufacturer of the barge, railcar, or its components. However, under certain circumstances strict liability concepts may apply. We operate in highly competitive industries. We may not be able to sustain our market leadership positions which may impact our financial results. We face aggressive competition in all geographic markets and each industry sector in which we operate. In addition to price, we face competition in product performance and technological innovation, quality, reliability of delivery, customer service, and other factors. This competition is often intense, the effects of which could reduce our revenues and operating profits, limit our ability to grow, increase pricing pressure on our products, and otherwise affect our financial results. 11 Table of Contents The limited number of customers in certain of our businesses, the variable purchase patterns of our customers in all our segments, and the timing of completion, delivery, and customer acceptance of orders may cause our revenues and income from operations to vary substantially each quarter, which would result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. Some of the markets we serve are dominated by a limited number of customers. Customers in each of our business segments do not purchase a similar volume of products each year nor make purchases consistently from year to year. As a result, the order levels for our products have varied significantly from quarterly period to quarterly period in the past and may continue to vary significantly in the future. Therefore, our results of operations in any particular quarterly period may be significantly affected. As a result of these quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our sales and operating results between quarterly periods may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If we are unable to obtain refinancing for existing debt as it matures or if our railcar leasing subsidiary is unable to obtain acceptable long-term financing of its railcar lease fleet, our lenders may foreclose on the portion of our lease fleet that secures our warehouse facility. In general, the ability to refinance maturing debt is significant to our leasing group’s operations. TILC, our wholly-owned captive leasing subsidiary, uses borrowings under a non-recourse warehouse facility to initially finance the railcars it purchases from our rail manufacturing business. Trinity Rail Leasing Warehouse Trust (“TRLWT”), a qualified subsidiary of TILC, is the borrower under the warehouse facility. Borrowings under the warehouse facility are available through February 2013, and, any amounts outstanding at maturity, absent renewal, will be payable in three equal installments in August 2013, February 2014, and August 2014. As of December 31, 2011, there was $308.5 million of indebtedness outstanding and $166.5 million was available under the TILC warehouse loan facility. Borrowings under the warehouse facility are secured by the specific railcars financed by such borrowings and the underlying leases. A decline in the value of the railcars securing borrowings under the warehouse facility or in the creditworthiness of the lessees under the associated leases could reduce TRLWT’s ability to obtain long-term financing for such railcars. Additionally, fluctuations in interest rates from the time TRLWT purchases railcars with short-term borrowings under the warehouse facility and the time TRLWT obtains permanent financing for such railcars could decrease our profitability on the leasing of the railcars and could have an adverse impact on our financial results. If TRLWT is unable to obtain long-term financing to replace borrowings under the warehouse facility, the lenders under the warehouse facility may foreclose on the portion of TRLWT’s lease fleet pledged to secure its loan facility, which foreclosure, if a significant number of railcars is affected, could result in the loss of a significant amount of TRLWT’s assets. We may be unable to re-market railcars from expiring leases on favorable terms, which could result in lower lease utilization percentages and reduced revenues. The profitability of our railcar leasing business is dependent in part on our ability to re-lease or sell railcars we own upon the expiration of existing lease terms, or upon lease defaults or bankruptcy filings by third party lessees. Our ability to re-lease or sell leased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including, among others: • the cost of and demand for leases or ownership of newer or specific use models; • the availability in the market generally of other used or new railcars; • the degree of obsolescence of leased railcars; • the prevailing market and economic conditions, including the availability of credit, interest rates, and inflation rates; • the demand for refurbishment; • the cost of materials and labor; • the volume of railcar traffic; and • the volume and nature of railcar loadings. A downturn in the industries in which our lessees operate and decreased demand for railcars could also increase our exposure to re-marketing risk because lessees may demand shorter lease terms or newer railcars, requiring us to re-market leased railcars more frequently. Furthermore, the resale market for previously leased railcars has a limited number of potential buyers. Our inability to re-lease or sell leased railcars on favorable terms could result in lower lease rates, lower lease utilization percentages and reduced revenues. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the price and supply of specialty and other component parts used in the production of our railcar-related and structural wind towers products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to cost-effectively manufacture and sell our products. In some instances, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain components needed in our production. A significant portion of our business depends on the adequate supply of numerous specialty and other parts and components at competitive prices such as brakes, wheels, side frames, bolsters, and bearings for the railcar business, as well as flanges for the wind towers business. Our manufacturing operations depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of materials, parts, and components in acceptable quantities and quality from our suppliers. Certain parts and components of our products are currently available from a limited number of suppliers (though generally a minimum of two suppliers continue to produce the parts and components we use in our products), and as a result, we may have limited control over pricing, availability, and delivery schedules. While we endeavor to be diligent in contractual relationships with our suppliers, if we are unable to purchase a sufficient quantity on a timely basis, we could face disruptions in our production and incur delays while we attempt to engage alternative suppliers. Any such disruption could harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations. Reductions in the availability of energy supplies or an increase in energy costs may increase our operating costs. We use various gases, including natural gas, at our manufacturing facilities and use diesel fuel in vehicles to transport our products to customers and to operate our plant equipment. An outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power and, in particular, prolonged conflicts could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in the cost of natural gas or energy in general. Hurricanes or other natural disasters could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas potentially resulting in an increase in natural gas prices or general energy costs. Speculative trading in energy futures in the world markets could also result in an increase in natural gas and general energy cost. Future limitations on the availability or consumption of petroleum products and/or an increase in energy costs, particularly natural gas for plant operations and diesel fuel for vehicles and plant equipment, could have an adverse effect upon our ability to conduct our business cost effectively. Our manufacturer’s warranties expose us to product replacement and repair claims. Depending on the product, we warrant against manufacturing defects due to our workmanship and certain materials pursuant to express limited contractual warranties. Accordingly, we may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future such as multiple claims based on one defect repeated throughout our production process or claims for which the cost of repairing or replacing the defective part, component or material is highly disproportionate to the original cost. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, significant repair or replacement costs, and damage to our reputation. Increasing insurance claims and expenses could lower profitability and increase business risk. The nature of our business subjects us to product liability, property damage, and personal injury claims, especially in connection with the repair and manufacture of products that transport hazardous, toxic, or volatile materials. We maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liability claims and liability insurance coverage at levels based upon commercial norms in the industries in which we operate and our historical claims experience. Over the last several years, insurance carriers have raised premiums for many companies operating in our industries. Increased premiums may further increase our insurance expense as coverage expires or otherwise cause us to raise our self-insured retention. If the number or severity of claims within our self-insured retention increases, we could suffer costs in excess of our reserves. An unusually large liability claim or a string of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our production process may exceed our insurance coverage or expose us to the entire damages judgment if we were unable or elected not to insure against certain hazards because of high premiums or other reasons. In addition, the availability of, and our ability to collect on, insurance coverage is often subject to factors beyond our control. Moreover, any accident or incident involving us, even if we are fully insured, contractually indemnified, or not held to be liable, could negatively affect our reputation among customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly affect the cost and availability of insurance in the future. Risks related to our operations outside of the United States, particularly Mexico, could decrease our profitability. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to the risks associated with cross-border business transactions and activities. Political, legal, trade, economic change or instability, unrestrained criminal activities, or social unrest could limit or curtail our respective foreign business activities and operations, including the ability to hire and retain employees. There has been a significant increase in violence in Mexico associated with the Mexican government’s attempts to stop illegal drug trafficking. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any of these risks, but we cannot predict the likelihood of future effects from such risks or any resulting adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Many items manufactured by us in Mexico are sold primarily in the U.S. and the transportation and import of such products may be disrupted. Some foreign countries where we operate have regulatory authorities that regulate railroad safety, railcar and railcar component part design, performance, and manufacture of equipment used on their railroad systems. If we fail to obtain and maintain certifications of our railcars and railcar parts and components within the various foreign countries where we operate, we may be unable to market and sell our railcars, parts, and components in those countries. In addition, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; tariffs and other trade barriers, including regulatory initiatives for buying 13 Table of Contents goods produced in America; more stringent rules relating to labor or the environment; adverse tax consequences; and price exchange controls could limit operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products difficult. Furthermore, any material change in the quotas, regulations, or duties on imports imposed by the United States government and agencies, or on exports by the government of Mexico or its agencies, could affect our ability to export products that we manufacture in Mexico. Because we have operations outside the United States, we could be adversely affected by final judgments of non-compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws of other countries. Equipment failures or extensive damage to our facilities, including as might occur as a result of natural disasters, could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns, loss of revenue or higher expenses. We operate a substantial amount of equipment at our production facilities, several of which are situated in tornado and hurricane zones and on the nation’s navigable waterways. An interruption in production capabilities or maintenance and repair capabilities at our facilities, as a result of equipment failure or acts of nature could reduce or prevent our production, service, or repair of our products and increase our costs and expenses. A halt of production at any of our manufacturing facilities could severely affect delivery times to our customers. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters that could disrupt our business, we cannot provide assurances that our plans would fully protect us from the effects of all such disasters. In addition, insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. Any significant delay in deliveries could result in cancellation of all or a portion of our orders, cause us to lose future sales, and negatively affect our reputation and our results of operations. Because we do not have employment contracts with our key management employees, we may not be able to retain their services in the future. Our success depends on the continued services of our key management employees, none of whom currently have an employment agreement with us. Although we have historically been successful in retaining the services of our key management, we may not be able to do so in the future. The loss of the services of one or more key members of our management team could result in increased costs associated with attracting and retaining a replacement and could disrupt our operations and result in a loss of revenues. Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, and other armed conflict involving the United States or its interests abroad may adversely affect the United States and global economies, potentially preventing us from meeting our financial and other obligations. In particular, the negative impacts of these events may affect the industries in which we operate. This could result in delays in or cancellations of the purchase of our products or shortages in raw materials, parts, or components. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues, and costs. Violations of or changes in the regulatory requirements applicable to the industries in which we operate may increase our operating costs. We are subject to extensive regulation by governmental regulatory and industry authorities. Our railcar operations are subject to regulation by the United States Environmental Protection Agency; the Research and Special Programs Administration and the Federal Railroad Administration, both divisions of the United States Department of Transportation; and the Association of American Railroads. These organizations establish rules and regulations for the railcar industry and rail interchange, including construction specifications and standards for the design and manufacture of railcars; mechanical, maintenance, and related standards for railcars; safety of railroad equipment, tracks, and operations; and packaging and transportation of hazardous or toxic materials. Future changes that affect compliance costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Our Inland Barge operations are subject to regulation by the United States Coast Guard; the United States National Transportation Safety Board; the United States Customs Service; the Maritime Administration of the United States Department of Transportation; and private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. These organizations establish safety criteria, investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. Violations of these laws and related regulations can result in substantial civil and criminal penalties as well as injunctions curtailing operations. Our Construction Products Group business is subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation, the Federal Highway Administration, and various state highway departments. These organizations establish certain standards and specifications related to the manufacture of our highway products. If our products were found to be not in compliance with these standards and specifications, we would be required to re-qualify our products for installation on state and national highways. Our operations are also subject to regulation of health and safety matters by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the United States Mine Safety and Health Administration. We believe that we employ appropriate precautions to protect our employees and others from workplace injuries and harmful exposure to materials handled and managed at our facilities. However, claims that may be asserted against us for work-related illnesses or injury, and the further adoption of occupational and 14 Table of Contents mine safety and health regulations in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate could increase our operating costs. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these health and safety laws and regulations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become involved in future litigation, investigations, or other proceedings or if we were found to be responsible or liable in any litigation, investigations, or proceedings, that such costs would not be material to us. Some of our customers place orders for our products in reliance on their ability to access government subsidies in the form of early tax benefits or tax credits such as accelerated depreciation or the production tax credit for renewable energy. There is no assurance that the United States government will reauthorize, modify, or otherwise not allow the expiration of such early tax benefits or tax credits, and in cases where such subsidies are materially modified to reduce the available early benefit or credit, or otherwise allowed to expire, the demand for our products could decrease, thereby creating the potential for a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may be required to reduce the value of our long-lived assets and/or goodwill, which would weaken our financial results. We periodically evaluate for potential impairment the carrying values of our long-lived assets to be held and used. The carrying value of a long-lived asset to be held and used is considered impaired when the carrying value is not recoverable through undiscounted future cash flows and the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying value. Fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risks involved or market quotes as available. Impairment losses on long-lived assets held for sale are determined in a similar manner, except that fair values are reduced commensurate with the estimated cost to dispose of the assets. In addition, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually, or on an interim basis, whenever events or circumstances change, indicating that the carrying amount of the goodwill might be impaired. Due to an overall market decline for products in the Rail Group during the second quarter of 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $325.0 million. Impairment losses related to reductions in the value of our long-lived assets or our goodwill could weaken our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to minimize these risks, when considered appropriate, through the use of interest rate hedges and similar financial instruments and other activities, although these measures may not be implemented or effective. Any material and untimely changes in interest rates or exchange rates could result in significant losses to us. Railcars as a significant mode of transporting freight could decline, become more efficient over time, experience a shift in types of modal transportation, and/or certain railcar types could become obsolete. As the freight transportation markets we serve continue to evolve and become more efficient, the use of railcars may decline in favor of other more economic transportation modalities. Features and functionality specific to certain railcar types could result in those railcars becoming obsolete as customer requirements for freight delivery change. Business, regulatory, and legal developments regarding climate change may affect the demand for our products or the ability of our critical suppliers to meet our needs. The Company has followed the current debate over climate change in general, and the related science, policy discussion, and prospective legislation. Additionally, the potential challenges and opportunities for the Company that climate change policy and legislation may pose have been reviewed. However, any such challenges or opportunities are heavily dependent on the nature and degree of climate change legislation and the extent to which it applies to our industries. At this time, the Company cannot predict the ultimate impact of climate change and climate change legislation on the Company’s operations or opportunities. Potential opportunities could include greater demand for wind towers and certain types of rail cars, while potential challenges could include decreased demand for certain types of rail cars and higher energy costs. Further, when or if these impacts may occur cannot be assessed until scientific analysis and legislative policy are more developed and specific legislative proposals begin to take shape. Changes in accounting standards or inaccurate estimates or assumptions in the application of accounting policies could adversely affect our financial results. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or liabilities and financial results and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and our independent registered public accounting firm) may amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior 15 Table of Contents period financial statements. For a further discussion of some of our critical accounting policies and standards and recent accounting changes, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Shortages of skilled labor could adversely impact our operations. We depend on skilled labor in the manufacture and repair of our products. Some of our facilities are located in areas where demand for skilled laborers may exceed supply. Shortages of some types of skilled laborers such as welders could restrict our ability to maintain or increase production rates and could increase our labor costs. Some of our employees belong to labor unions and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operations. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions at some of our operations in the U.S. and all of our operations in Mexico. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. We cannot be assured that our relations with our workforce will remain positive or that union organizers will not be successful in future attempts to organize at some of our facilities. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized, or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, we could face higher labor costs in the future as a result of severance or other charges associated with lay-offs, shutdowns or reductions in the size and scope of our operations or difficulties of restarting our operations that have been temporarily shuttered. From time to time we may take tax positions that the Internal Revenue Service may contest. We have in the past and may in the future take tax positions that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may contest. Effective with the 2011 tax return, we are required by a new IRS regulation to disclose particular tax positions, taken after the effective date, to the IRS as part of our tax returns for that year and future years. If the IRS successfully contests a tax position that we take, we may be required to pay additional taxes or fines that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Additional Information. Our Internet website address is www.trin.net. Information on the website is available free of charge. We make available on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any reference to our website is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 16 Table of Contents 