Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements, and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of our Company. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial but that which may become material in the future also may impair our business operations. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligations to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The cyclical nature of our business results in lower revenues during economic downturns. We operate in cyclical industries. Downturns in overall economic conditions usually have a significant adverse effect on cyclical industries due to decreased demand for new and replacement products. Decreased demand could result in lower sales volumes, lower prices, and/or a loss of profits. The railcar, barge, and wind energy industries have previously experienced deep down cycles and operated with a minimal backlog. If a down cycle were to return in one or more of these cyclical businesses, we could experience losses and close plants, suspend production, and incur related costs. Litigation claims could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. We and our subsidiaries are currently, and may from time to time be, involved in various legal proceedings arising out of our operations. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims could result in significant monetary damages against us that could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. While we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liability and liability insurance at coverage levels based upon commercial norms in our industries, our reserves may be inadequate to cover the uninsured portion of claims or lawsuits or any future claims or lawsuits arising from our businesses for which we are judged liable, and any such claims or lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or overall financial condition. Increases in the price and demand for steel and other component parts could lower our margins and profitability. The principal material used in our Rail, Inland Barge, and Energy Equipment Groups is steel. During 2007, the prices of steel we purchased increased at a much lower rate than in prior years and general price increases announced by the steel producers were partially mitigated through contract purchases. Steel prices have been and may be volatile as a result of scrap surcharges assessed by steel production facilities. Supply was sufficient to support our manufacturing requirements. The prices for component parts purchased in 2007 increased over base prices paid in 2006. We used escalation clauses and other arrangements with our customers to reduce the impact of these cost increases, thus minimizing the effect on our operating margins for the year. In general, we believe there is enough capacity in the supply industry to meet current production levels. We believe our existing contracts and other relationships we have developed will meet our current production forecasts. However, any unanticipated interruption in our supply chain could have an adverse impact on both our margins and production schedules. 8 Table of Contents We have potential exposure to environmental liabilities, which may increase costs and lower profitability. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with air quality and the handling and disposal of waste products, fuel products, and hazardous substances. In particular, we may incur investigation, remediation, and related expenses related to property conditions that we inherited after acquiring older manufacturing facilities that were constructed and operated before the adoption of current environmental laws. Further, some of the products we manufacture are used to transport hazardous materials. Although we conduct due diligence inquiries and analysis with respect to environmental matters in connection with acquisitions, we may be unable to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. Environmental liabilities incurred by us, if not covered by adequate insurance or indemnification, will increase our respective costs and have a negative impact on our profitability. We operate in highly competitive industries, which may impact our financial results. We face aggressive competition in all geographic markets and each industry sector in which we operate. As a result, competition on pricing is often intense. The effect of this competition could reduce our revenues, limit our ability to grow, increase pricing pressure on our products, and otherwise affect our financial results. If our railcar leasing subsidiary is unable to obtain acceptable long-term financing of its railcar lease fleet, our lenders may foreclose on the portion of our lease fleet that secures our warehouse facility. TILC, our wholly owned captive leasing subsidiary, uses borrowings under a warehouse facility to initially finance the railcars it purchases from our rail manufacturing business. Borrowings under the warehouse facility are secured by the specific railcars financed by such borrowings and the underlying leases. The warehouse facility is non-recourse to us and to our subsidiaries other than Trinity Rail Leasing Trust II (“TRL II”) a qualified subsidiary of TILC that is the borrower under the warehouse facility. Borrowings under the warehouse facility are available through August 2009, and unless renewed would be payable in three equal installments in February 2010, August 2010, and February 2011. A decline in the value of the railcars securing borrowings under the warehouse facility or in the creditworthiness of the lessees under the associated leases could reduce TRL II’s ability to obtain long-term financing for such railcars. Additionally, fluctuations in interest rates from the time TRL II purchases railcars with short-term borrowings under the warehouse facility and the time TRL II obtains permanent financing for such railcars could decrease our profitability on the leasing of the railcars and could have an adverse impact on our financial results. If TRL II is unable to obtain long-term financing to replace borrowings under the warehouse facility, Trinity may decide to satisfy TRL II’s indebtedness under the warehouse facility or the lenders under the warehouse facility may foreclose on the portion of TRL II’s lease fleet pledged to secure this facility. As of December 31, 2007, there was $309.8 million of indebtedness outstanding and $90.2 million was available under the warehouse facility. In February 2008, this facility was increased to $600 million with the availability period of the facility remaining through August 2009. We may be unable to re-market leased railcars on favorable terms, which could result in lower lease utilization rates and reduced revenues. The profitability of our railcar leasing business is dependent in part on our ability to re-lease or sell railcars we own upon the expiration of existing lease terms. Our ability to re-lease or sell leased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including, among others: • the cost of and demand for newer or specific use models; • the availability in the market generally of other used or new railcars; • the degree of obsolescence of leased railcars; • the prevailing market and economic conditions, including interest and inflation rates; • the need for refurbishment; • the cost of materials and labor; and • the volume of railcar traffic. A downturn in the industries in which our lessees operate and decreased demand for railcars could also increase our exposure to re-market risk because lessees may demand shorter lease terms, requiring us to re-market 9 Table of Contents leased railcars more frequently. Furthermore, the resale market for previously leased railcars has a limited number of potential buyers. Our inability to re-lease or sell leased railcars on favorable terms could result in lower lease utilization rates and reduced revenues. TILC’s reserve for credit losses may prove inadequate. Our reserve for possible credit losses is maintained based upon management’s judgment of losses, history, and risks inherent in the railcar lease portfolio. We periodically review our reserve for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, and collateral values; car type concentration risk including our ability to re-market railcars, utilization levels of the lease fleet, market conditions of various industries, credit quality indicators; including external credit reports, past charge-off experiences and levels of past due receivables. We cannot be certain that our reserve for credit losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of our customer base materially deteriorates, our reserves may be inadequate to cover credit losses, and any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or overall financial condition. Fluctuations in the supply of component parts used in the production of our railcar-related and structural wind tower products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to cost-effectively manufacture and sell our products. A significant portion of our business depends on the adequate supply of numerous specialty components such as brakes, wheels, side frames, bolsters, bearings, and flanges at competitive prices. We depend on third-party suppliers for a significant portion of our component part needs. Specialty components comprise a significant portion of the production cost of each railcar we manufacture. Due to consolidations and challenging industry conditions, the number of alternative suppliers of specialty components has declined in recent years, though generally a minimum of two suppliers continue to produce each type of component we use in our products. While we endeavor to be diligent in contractual relationships with our suppliers, a significant decrease in the availability of specialty components could materially increase our cost of goods sold or prevent us from manufacturing our products on a timely basis. Reductions in the availability of energy supplies or an increase in energy costs may increase our operating costs. We use natural gas at our manufacturing facilities and use diesel fuel in vehicles to transport our products to customers and to operate our plant equipment. Over the past three years, prices for natural gas have fluctuated significantly. An outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power and, in particular, a prolonged armed conflict in the Middle East, could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in the cost of natural gas or energy in general. Hurricanes or other natural disasters could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in natural gas prices or general energy costs. Future limitations on the availability or consumption of petroleum products and/or an increase in energy costs, particularly natural gas for plant operations and diesel fuel for vehicles and plant equipment, could have an adverse effect upon our ability to conduct our business cost effectively. Our manufacturer’s warranties expose us to potentially significant claims. Depending on the product, we warrant against manufacturing defects due to our workmanship and certain materials pursuant to express limited contractual warranties. Accordingly, we may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future such as multiple claims based on one defect repeated throughout our mass production process or claims for which the cost of repairing or replacing the defective part is highly disproportionate to the original cost of the part. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs, and damage to our reputation. Increasing insurance claims and expenses could lower profitability and increase business risk. The nature of our business subjects us to product liability, property damage, and personal injury claims, especially in connection with the repair and manufacture of products that transport hazardous, toxic or volatile materials. We maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liability and liability insurance coverage at levels based upon commercial norms in the industries in which we operate and our historical claims experience. Over the last several years, insurance carriers have raised premiums for many companies operating in our industries. Increased premiums may further increase our insurance expense as coverage expires or otherwise cause us to raise our self-insured retention. If the number or severity of claims within our self-insured retention increases, we could suffer costs in excess of our reserves. An unusually large liability claim or a string of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our mass 10 Table of Contents production process may exceed our insurance coverage or result in direct damages if we were unable or elected not to insure against certain hazards because of high premiums or other reasons. In addition, the availability of, and our ability to collect on, insurance coverage is often subject to factors beyond our control. Moreover, any accident or incident involving us, even if we are fully insured or not held to be liable, could negatively affect our reputation among customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly affect the cost and availability of insurance in the future. Risks related to our operations outside of the United States could decrease our profitability. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to the risks associated with cross-border business transactions and activities. Political, legal, trade, or economic changes or instability could limit or curtail our respective foreign business activities and operations. Some foreign countries where we operate have regulatory authorities that regulate railroad safety, railcar design and railcar component part design, performance, and manufacture of equipment used on their railroad systems. If we fail to obtain and maintain certifications of our railcars and railcar parts within the various foreign countries where we operate, we may be unable to market and sell our railcars in those countries. In addition, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, more stringent rules relating to labor or the environment, adverse tax consequences, and price exchange controls could limit operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products difficult. Furthermore, any material change in the quotas, regulations, or duties on imports imposed by the United States government and agencies, or on exports by the government of Mexico or its agencies, could affect our ability to export products that we manufacture in Mexico. Because we do not have employment contracts with our key management employees, we may not be able to retain their services in the future. Our success depends on the continued services of our key management employees, none of whom currently have employment agreements with us. Although we have historically been successful in retaining the services of our key management, we may not be able to do so in the future. The loss of the services of one or more key members of our management team could result in increased costs associated with attracting and retaining a replacement and could disrupt our operations and result in a loss of revenues. Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, and other armed conflict involving the United States or its interests abroad may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. In particular, the negative impacts of these events may affect the industries in which we operate. This could result in delays in or cancellations of the purchase of our products or shortages in raw materials or component parts. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues, and costs. Violations of or changes in the regulatory requirements applicable to the industries in which we operate may increase our operating costs. We are subject to extensive regulation by governmental regulatory and industry authorities. Our railcar operations are subject to regulation by the United States Environmental Protection Agency; the Research and Special Programs Administration, a division of the United States Department of Transportation; the Federal Railroad Administration, a division of the United States Department of Transportation; and the Association of American Railroads. These organizations establish rules and regulations for the railcar industry, including construction specifications and standards for the design and manufacture of railcars; mechanical, maintenance, and related standards for railcars; safety of railroad equipment, tracks, and operations; and packaging and transportation of hazardous or toxic materials. Future changes that affect compliance costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Our Inland Barge operations are subject to regulation by the United States Coast Guard; the National Transportation Safety Board; the United States Customs Service; the Maritime Administration of the United States Department of Transportation; and private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. These organizations establish safety criteria, investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. Violations of these regulations and related laws can result in substantial civil and criminal penalties as well as injunctions curtailing operations. Our operations are also subject to regulation of health and safety matters by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration. We believe that we employ appropriate precautions to protect our employees and others from workplace injuries and harmful exposure to materials handled and managed at our facilities. However, claims that may be asserted against us for work-related illnesses or injury, and the further adoption of occupational 11 Table of Contents health and safety regulations in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate could increase our operating costs. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these health and safety laws and regulations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become involved in future litigation, investigations, or other proceedings or if we were found to be responsible or liable in any litigation, investigations, or proceedings, that such costs would not be material to us. We may be required to reduce our inventory carrying values, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. To support our production line continuity, we ended 2007 with a higher level of railcars in our finished goods inventory than in 2006, due to our decision to build railcars in anticipation of demand from TILC and external customers, including TRIP. We expect to sell this inventory in the normal course of business. We are required to record all our inventories at the lower of cost or market. In assessing the ultimate realization of inventories, we are required to make judgments in respect to demand requirements and compare those with the current or committed inventory levels. We have historically recorded reductions in inventory carrying values when product lines are discontinued or market conditions change as a result of changes in demand requirements. We may be required to reduce inventory carrying values in the future due to a severe decline in market conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to reduce the value of our long-lived assets and/or goodwill, which would weaken our results of operations. We periodically evaluate for potential impairment the carrying values of our long-lived assets to be held and used. The carrying value of a long-lived asset to be held and used is considered impaired when the carrying value is not recoverable through undiscounted future cash flows and the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying value. Fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risks involved or market quotes as available. Impairment losses on long-lived assets held for sale are determined in a similar manner, except that fair values are reduced commensurate with the estimated cost to dispose of the assets. In addition, we are required, at least annually, to evaluate goodwill related to acquired businesses for potential impairment indicators that are based primarily on market conditions in the United States and the operational performance of our reporting units. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss related to reductions in the value of our long-lived assets or our goodwill could weaken our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to minimize these risks, when considered appropriate, through the use of currency and interest rate hedges and similar financial instruments and other activities, although these measures may not be implemented or effective. Any material and untimely changes in interest rates or exchange rates could result in significant losses to us. Additional Information. Our Internet website address is www.trin.net. Information on the website is available free of charge. We make available on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 12 Table of Contents 