Item 1A. Risk Factors. We caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements, and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of our Company. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. The cyclical nature of our business results in lower revenues during economic downturns. We operate in cyclical industries. Downturns in overall economic conditions usually have a significant adverse effect on cyclical industries due to decreased demand for new and replacement products. Decreased demand could continue to result in lower sales volumes, lower prices, and/or a loss of profits. The railcar, barge, and wind tower industries recently experienced a deep down cycle and operated with a minimal backlog. If this down cycle were to return, we could experience losses and close plants, suspend production, and incur related costs. Litigation claims could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. We and our subsidiaries are currently and may from time to time be involved in various legal proceedings arising out of our operations. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending against us could result in significant monetary damages against us that could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. While we maintain reserves and liability insurance at coverage levels based upon commercial norms in our industries, our reserves may be inadequate to cover these claims or lawsuits or any future claims or lawsuits arising from our businesses, and any such claims or lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or overall financial condition. Increases in the price and demand for steel could lower our margins and profitability. The principal material used in our Rail, Inland Barge and Energy Equipment Groups is steel. During 2005, the prices of steel we purchased increased at a much lower rate than was evident in 2004. The prices for other component parts we purchased in 2005 increased significantly and have been volatile on a month-to-month basis. We used escalation clauses and other arrangements to reduce the impact of these cost increases, thus minimizing the effect on our operating margins for the year. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 93% of the 8 Table of Contents railcar backlog is covered by escalation clauses or other arrangements which reduce the exposure to future material cost increases related to these contracts. Availability of steel has improved significantly during 2005, while the availability of other components continues to be an issue. In general, we believe there is enough capacity in the supply industry to meet current production levels. We believe our existing contracts and other relationships we have in place will meet our current production forecasts. However, any unanticipated interruption in our supply chain would have an impact on both our margin and production schedules. We have potential exposure to environmental liabilities, which may increase costs and lower profitability. Our operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with air quality and the handling and disposal of waste products, fuel products, and hazardous substances. In particular, we may incur remediation costs and other related expenses because: • some of our manufacturing facilities were constructed and operated before the adoption of current environmental laws and the institution of compliance practices; and • some of the products that we manufacture are used to transport hazardous materials. Furthermore, although we intend to conduct appropriate due diligence with respect to environmental matters in connection with future acquisitions, we may be unable to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. Environmental liabilities incurred by us, if not covered by adequate insurance or indemnification will increase our respective costs and have a negative impact on our profitability. We compete in highly competitive industries, which may impact our respective financial results. We face aggressive competition in all geographic markets and each industry sector in which we operate. As a result, competition on pricing is often intense. The effect of this competition could reduce our revenues, limit our ability to grow, increase pricing pressure on our products, and otherwise affect our financial results. If our railcar leasing subsidiary is unable to obtain acceptable long-term financing of its railcar lease fleet, our lenders may foreclose on the portion of our lease fleet that secures our warehouse facility. TILC, our wholly owned captive leasing subsidiary, uses borrowings under a warehouse facility to initially finance the railcars it purchases from us. Borrowings under the warehouse facility are secured by the specific railcars financed by such borrowings and the underlying leases. The warehouse facility is non-recourse to us and to our other subsidiaries other than Trinity Rail Leasing Trust II, or TRL II, a qualified subsidiary of TILC that is the borrower under the warehouse facility. Borrowings under the warehouse facility are available through August 2007, and unless renewed would be payable in three equal installments in February 2008, August 2008, and February 2009. A decline in the value of the railcars securing borrowings under the warehouse facility or in the creditworthiness of the lessees under the associated leases could reduce TRL II’s ability to obtain long-term financing for such railcars. Additionally, fluctuations in interest rates from the time TRL II purchases railcars with short-term borrowings under the warehouse facility and the time TRL II obtains permanent financing for such railcars could decrease our profitability on the leasing of the railcars and could have an adverse impact on our financial results. If TRL II is unable to obtain long-term financing to replace borrowings under the warehouse facility, Trinity may decide to satisfy TRL II’s indebtedness under the warehouse facility or the lenders under the warehouse facility may foreclose on the portion of TRL II’s lease fleet pledged to secure this facility. As of December 31, 2005, there was $256.3 million of indebtedness outstanding and $118.7 million was available under the warehouse facility. We may be unable to remarket leased railcars on favorable terms, which could result in lower lease utilization rates and reduced revenues. The profitability of our railcar leasing business is dependent in part on our ability to re-lease or sell railcars we own upon the expiration of existing lease terms. Our ability to remarket leased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including, among others: • the cost of and demand for newer models; • the availability in the market generally of other used or new railcars; 9 Table of Contents • the degree of obsolescence of leased railcars; • prevailing market and economic conditions, including interest and inflation rates; • the need for refurbishment; • the cost of materials and labor; and • volume of railcar traffic. A downturn in the industries in which our lessees operate and decreased demand for railcars could also increase our exposure to remarket risk because lessees may demand shorter lease terms, requiring us to remarket leased railcars more frequently. Furthermore, the resale market for previously leased railcars has a limited number of potential buyers. Our inability to re-lease or sell leased railcars on favorable terms could result in lower lease utilization rates and reduced revenues. Fluctuations in the supply of component parts used in the production of our products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to cost-effectively manufacture and sell our products. A significant portion of our business depends on the adequate supply of numerous specialty components such as brakes, wheels, side frames, bolsters, and bearings at competitive prices. We depend on third-party suppliers for a significant portion of our component part needs. Specialty components comprise a significant portion of the production cost of each railcar we manufacture. Due to consolidations and challenging industry conditions, the number of alternative suppliers of specialty components has declined in recent years, though generally a minimum of three suppliers continue to produce each type of component we use in our products. While we endeavor to be diligent in contractual relationships with our suppliers, a significant decrease in the availability of specialty components could materially increase our cost of goods sold or prevent us from manufacturing our products on a timely basis. Reductions in the availability of energy supplies or an increase in energy costs may increase our operating costs. We use natural gas at our manufacturing facilities and use diesel fuel in vehicles to transport our products to customers and to operate our plant equipment. Over the past three years, prices for natural gas have fluctuated significantly. An outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power and, in particular, a prolonged armed conflict in the Middle East, could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in the cost of natural gas or energy in general. As experienced in 2005, hurricanes or other natural disasters could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in natural gas prices or general energy costs. Future limitations on the availability or consumption of petroleum products and/or an increase in energy costs, particularly natural gas for plant operations and diesel fuel for vehicles and plant equipment, could have an adverse effect upon our ability to conduct our business cost effectively. Our manufacturer’s warranties expose us to potentially significant claims. Depending on the product, we warrant against manufacturing defects due to our workmanship and certain materials pursuant to express limited contractual warranties. Accordingly, we may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future such as multiple claims based on one defect repeated throughout our mass production process or claims for which the cost of repairing the defective part is highly disproportionate to the original cost of the part. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs, and damage to our reputation. Increasing insurance claims and expenses could lower profitability and increase business risk. The nature of our business subjects us to product liability, property damage, and personal injury claims, especially in connection with the repair and manufacture of products that transport hazardous or volatile materials. We maintain reserves and liability insurance coverage at levels based upon commercial norms in the industries in which we operate and our historical claims experience. Over the last several years, insurance carriers have raised premiums for many companies operating in our industries. Increased premiums may further increase our insurance expense as coverage expires or otherwise cause us to raise our self-insured retention. If the number or severity of claims within our self-insured retention increases, we could suffer costs in excess of our reserves. An unusually large liability claim or a string of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our mass production process may exceed our insurance coverage or result in direct damages if we were unable or elected not to insure against certain hazards because of high premiums or other reasons. In addition, the availability of, and our ability to 10 Table of Contents collect on, insurance coverage is often subject to factors beyond our control. Moreover, any accident or incident involving us, even if we are fully insured or not held to be liable, could negatively affect our reputation among customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly affect the cost and availability of insurance in the future. Risks related to our operations outside of the United States could decrease our profitability. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to the risks associated with cross-border business transactions and activities. Political, legal, trade, or economic changes or instability could limit or curtail our respective foreign business activities and operations. Some foreign countries where we operate have regulatory authorities that regulate railroad safety, railcar design and railcar component part design, performance, and manufacture of equipment used on their railroad systems. If we fail to obtain and maintain certifications of our railcars and railcar parts within the various foreign countries where we operate, we may be unable to market and sell our railcars in those countries. In addition, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, more stringent rules relating to labor or the environment, adverse tax consequences, and price exchange controls could limit operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products difficult. Furthermore, any material change in the quotas, regulations, or duties on imports imposed by the U.S. government and agencies or on exports by the government of Mexico or its agencies could affect our ability to export the railcars and propane tanks that we manufacture in Mexico. Because we do not have employment contracts with our key management employees, we may not be able to retain their services in the future. Our success depends on the continued services of our key management employees, none of whom currently have employment agreements with us. Although we have historically been successful in retaining the services of our key management, we may not be able to do so in the future. The loss of the services of one or more key members of our management team could result in increased costs associated with attracting and retaining a replacement and could disrupt our operations and result in a loss of revenues. Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, and other armed conflict involving the United States or its interests abroad may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. In particular, the negative impacts of these events may affect the industries in which we operate. This could result in delays in or cancellations of the purchase of our products or shortages in raw materials or component parts. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Violations of or changes in the regulatory requirements applicable to the industries in which we operate may increase our operating costs. We are subject to extensive regulation by governmental regulatory and industry authorities. Our railcar operations are subject to regulation by the Environmental Protection Agency; the Research and Special Programs Administration, a division of the Department of Transportation; the Federal Railroad Administration, a division of the Department of Transportation, and the Association of American Railroads. These organizations establish rules and regulations for the railcar industry, including construction specifications and standards for the design and manufacture of railcars; mechanical, maintenance, and related standards for railcars; safety of railroad equipment, tracks, and operations; and packaging and transportation of hazardous materials. Future changes that affect compliance costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Our Inland Barge operations are subject to regulation by the United States Coast Guard; the National Transportation Safety Board; the United States Customs Service; the Maritime Administration of the United States Department of Transportation; and private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. These organizations establish safety criteria, investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. Violations of these regulations and related laws can result in substantial civil and criminal penalties as well as injunctions curtailing operations. Our operations are also subject to regulation of health and safety matters by the United States Occupations Safety and Health Administration. We believe that we employ appropriate precautions to 11 Table of Contents protect our employees and others from workplace injuries and harmful exposure to materials handled and managed at our facilities. However, claims that may be asserted against us for work-related illnesses or injury, and the further adoption of occupational health and safety regulations in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate could increase our operating costs. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these health and safety laws and regulations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become involved in future litigation or other proceedings or if we were found to be responsible or liable in any litigation or proceedings, that such costs would not be material to us. We may be required to reduce our inventory carrying values, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to record our inventories at the lower of cost or market. In assessing the ultimate realization of inventories, we are required to make judgments as to future demand requirements and compare that with the current or committed inventory levels. We have recorded reductions in inventory carrying values in recent periods due to discontinuance of product lines as well as changes in market conditions due to changes in demand requirements. We may be required to reduce inventory carrying values in the future due to a decline in market conditions in the railcar and inland barge businesses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to reduce the value of our long-lived assets and/or goodwill, which would weaken our results of operations. We periodically evaluate the carrying values of our long-lived assets to be held and used for potential impairment. The carrying value of a long-lived asset to be held and used is considered impaired when the carrying value is not recoverable through undiscounted future cash flows and the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying value. Fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risks involved or market quotes as available. Impairment losses on long-lived assets held for sale are determined in a similar manner, except that fair values are reduced for the estimated cost to dispose of the assets. In addition, we are required, at least annually, to evaluate goodwill related to acquired businesses for potential impairment indicators that are based primarily on market conditions in the United States and Europe and the operational performance of our reporting units. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss related to reductions in the value of our long-lived assets or our goodwill could weaken our financial condition and results of operations. Due to the performance of its European operations, sales order activity, and the status of the European backlog in the second quarter of 2005, the Company performed an impairment analysis of the long-lived assets of these operations. Based on this review, the Company recorded a charge of $2.3 million to write off all of the goodwill related to these operations as of June 30, 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company updated this analysis based on revised cash flow forecasts. Such forecasts indicated the carrying value of property, plant, and equipment related to the European operations was impaired. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $14.2 million to write down these assets to their estimated fair value based on the Company’s estimate of discounted future cash flows. The estimates of future cash flows are based on assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable. However, actual operations will differ from these estimates. Accordingly, the company will continue to evaluate its European operations, as necessary, to determine if there has been any additional impairment of the carrying value of the property, plant, and equipment. As of December 31, 2005, the Company has property, plant, and equipment with a net book value of approximately $37.3 million related to its European operations. The impairment charges related to the European operations are included in the operating profit of the Rail Group for 2005. We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to minimize these risks, when considered appropriate, through the use of currency and interest rate hedges and similar financial instruments and other activities, although these measures may not be implemented or effective. Any material and untimely changes in interest rates or exchange rates could result in significant losses to us. 12 Table of Contents Additional Information. Our Internet website address is www.trin.net. Information on the website is available “free of charge”. We make available on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 