Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements, and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of our Company. 7 Table of Contents These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial but that which may become material in the future also may impair our business operations. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligations to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Negative global economic conditions could continue to result in a decrease in our revenues and an increase in our operating costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If the current global economic downturn continues, many of our customers may continue to delay or reduce their purchases of railcars, barges, and wind towers. If the negative conditions in the global credit markets continue to prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may continue to decrease which could result in lower revenues. Likewise, if our suppliers continue to face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products, or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These actions could continue to result in reductions in our revenues, increased price competition, and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business results of operations and financial condition. Negative global economic conditions may lead to cancellations or delays in our backlog. The continued lack of stability in the global economy, current conditions in the global credit markets, volatility in the ethanol industry, and/or adverse changes in the financial condition of certain third party lessees could possibly lead to cancellations or delays of backlog orders. The cyclical nature of our business results in lower revenues during economic downturns. We operate in cyclical industries. Downturns in overall economic conditions usually have a significant adverse effect on cyclical industries due to decreased demand for new and replacement products. Decreased demand could result in lower sales volumes, lower prices, and/or a loss of profits. The railcar, barge, and wind energy industries have previously experienced deep down cycles and at such times operated with a minimal backlog. The economic and financial crisis experienced by the United States economy during 2009 and 2008 has impacted our businesses. New orders for railcars and barges continued to drop significantly in 2009 as the transportation industry saw a significant decline in the shipment of freight. The 2010 outlook for the transportation industry is for continued weakness. Orders for structural wind towers have been slow since mid-2008 when green energy companies experienced tightened credit markets coupled with lower prices for electricity and natural gas sales. The slowdown in the residential and commercial construction markets impacted our Construction Products Group as well. We continually assess our manufacturing capacity and take steps to align our production capacity with demand. As a result of our assessment, we have adapted to the rapid decline in market conditions by reducing our production footprint and staffing levels. Litigation claims could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. We are currently, and may from time to time be, involved in various legal proceedings arising out of our operations. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims could result in significant monetary damages against us that could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. While we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liability and liability insurance at coverage levels based upon commercial norms in our industries, our reserves may be inadequate to cover the uninsured portion of claims or lawsuits or any future claims or lawsuits arising from our businesses for which we are judged liable. Any such claims or lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or overall financial condition. Increases in the price and demand for steel and other component parts could lower our margins and profitability. The principal material used in our Rail, Inland Barge, and Energy Equipment Groups is steel. During 2009, the supply of steel was sufficient to support our manufacturing requirements. Market steel prices were extremely volatile and rose significantly during most of 2008 before eventually declining and leveling off at the end of 2008. We were able to mitigate the majority of this volatility through contract purchases and existing supplier commitments. Steel prices may continue to be volatile in part as a result of scrap surcharges assessed by steel production facilities and other market factors. We often use price escalation clauses and other arrangements with our customers to reduce the impact of this volatility, thus minimizing the effect on our operating margins for the year. 8 Table of Contents In general, we believe there is enough capacity in the supply industry to meet current production levels. We believe the existing contracts and other relationships we have developed will meet our current production forecasts. However, any unanticipated interruption in our supply chain could have an adverse impact on both our margins and production schedules. We have potential exposure to environmental liabilities, which may increase costs and lower profitability. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with air quality and the handling and disposal of waste products, fuel products, and hazardous substances. In particular, we may incur investigation, remediation, and related expenses related to property conditions that we inherited after acquiring older manufacturing facilities that were constructed and operated before the adoption of current environmental laws. Further, some of the products we manufacture are used to transport hazardous materials. Although we conduct due diligence inquiries and analysis with respect to environmental matters in connection with acquisitions, we may be unable to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. Environmental liabilities incurred by us, if not covered by adequate insurance or indemnification, will increase our respective costs and have a negative impact on our profitability. We operate in highly competitive industries. We may not be able to sustain our market leadership positions which may impact our financial results. We face aggressive competition in all geographic markets and each industry sector in which we operate. As a result, competition on pricing, product performance and service is often intense. The effect of this competition could reduce our revenues and operating profits, limit our ability to grow, increase pricing pressure on our products, and otherwise affect our financial results. If we are unable to obtain refinancing for existing debt as it matures or if our railcar leasing subsidiary is unable to obtain acceptable long-term financing of its railcar lease fleet, our lenders may foreclose on the portion of our lease fleet that secures our warehouse facility. In general, the ability to refinance maturing debt is significant to our leasing group’s operations. TILC, our wholly owned captive leasing subsidiary, uses borrowings under a warehouse facility to initially finance the railcars it purchases from our rail manufacturing business. Borrowings under the warehouse facility are secured by the specific railcars financed by such borrowings and the underlying leases. The warehouse facility is non-recourse to us and to our subsidiaries other than Trinity Rail Leasing Warehouse Trust (“TRLWT”), a qualified subsidiary of TILC that is the borrower under the warehouse facility. Borrowings under the warehouse facility are available through February 2011, and unless renewed would be payable in three equal installments in August 2011, February 2012, and August 2012. A decline in the value of the railcars securing borrowings under the warehouse facility or in the creditworthiness of the lessees under the associated leases could reduce TRLWT’s ability to obtain long-term financing for such railcars. Additionally, fluctuations in interest rates from the time TRLWT purchases railcars with short-term borrowings under the warehouse facility and the time TRLWT obtains permanent financing for such railcars could decrease our profitability on the leasing of the railcars and could have an adverse impact on our financial results. If TRLWT is unable to obtain long-term financing to replace borrowings under the warehouse facility, Trinity may decide to satisfy TRLWT’s indebtedness under the warehouse facility or the lenders under the warehouse facility may foreclose on the portion of TRLWT’s lease fleet pledged to secure this facility. As of December 31, 2009, there was $141.4 million of indebtedness outstanding and $333.6 million was available under the warehouse facility. We may be unable to re-market leased railcars on favorable terms, which could result in lower lease utilization rates and reduced revenues. The profitability of our railcar leasing business is dependent in part on our ability to re-lease or sell railcars we own upon the expiration of existing lease terms, the default of leases or bankruptcy of third party lessees. Our ability to re-lease or sell leased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including, among others: • the cost of and demand for newer or specific use models; • the availability in the market generally of other used or new railcars; • the degree of obsolescence of leased railcars; • the prevailing market and economic conditions, including interest and inflation rates; 9 Table of Contents • the need for refurbishment; • the cost of materials and labor; and • the volume of railcar traffic. A downturn in the industries in which our lessees operate and decreased demand for railcars could also increase our exposure to re-market risk because lessees may demand shorter lease terms, requiring us to re-market leased railcars more frequently. Furthermore, the resale market for previously leased railcars has a limited number of potential buyers. Our inability to re-lease or sell leased railcars on favorable terms could result in lower lease utilization rates and reduced revenues. Fluctuations in the supply of component parts used in the production of our railcar-related and structural wind towers products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to cost-effectively manufacture and sell our products. A significant portion of our business depends on the adequate supply of numerous specialty components at competitive prices for the railcar business such as brakes, wheels, side frames, bolsters, and bearings as well as flanges for the wind towers business. We depend on third-party suppliers for a significant portion of our component part needs. Specialty components comprise a significant portion of the production cost of each railcar we manufacture. Due to consolidations and challenging industry conditions, the number of alternative suppliers of specialty components has declined in recent years, though generally a minimum of two suppliers continue to produce each type of component we use in our products. While we endeavor to be diligent in contractual relationships with our suppliers, a significant decrease in the availability of specialty components could materially increase our cost of goods sold or prevent us from manufacturing our products on a timely basis. Reductions in the availability of energy supplies or an increase in energy costs may increase our operating costs. We use natural gas at our manufacturing facilities and use diesel fuel in vehicles to transport our products to customers and to operate our plant equipment. Over the past three years, prices for natural gas have fluctuated significantly. An outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power and, in particular, a prolonged armed conflict in the Middle East, could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in the cost of natural gas or energy in general. Hurricanes or other natural disasters could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in natural gas prices or general energy costs. Speculative trading in energy futures in the world markets could also result in an increase in natural gas and general energy cost. Future limitations on the availability or consumption of petroleum products and/or an increase in energy costs, particularly natural gas for plant operations and diesel fuel for vehicles and plant equipment, could have an adverse effect upon our ability to conduct our business cost effectively. Our manufacturer’s warranties expose us to potentially significant claims. Depending on the product, we warrant against manufacturing defects due to our workmanship and certain materials pursuant to express limited contractual warranties. Accordingly, we may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future such as multiple claims based on one defect repeated throughout our mass production process or claims for which the cost of repairing or replacing the defective part is highly disproportionate to the original cost of the part. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs, and damage to our reputation. Increasing insurance claims and expenses could lower profitability and increase business risk. The nature of our business subjects us to product liability, property damage, and personal injury claims, especially in connection with the repair and manufacture of products that transport hazardous, toxic or volatile materials. We maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liability claims and liability insurance coverage at levels based upon commercial norms in the industries in which we operate and our historical claims experience. Over the last several years, insurance carriers have raised premiums for many companies operating in our industries. Increased premiums may further increase our insurance expense as coverage expires or otherwise cause us to raise our self-insured retention. If the number or severity of claims within our self-insured retention increases, we could suffer costs in excess of our reserves. An unusually large liability claim or a string of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our mass production process may exceed our insurance coverage or result in direct damages if we were unable or elected not to insure against certain hazards because of high premiums or other reasons. In addition, the availability of, and our ability to collect on, insurance coverage is often subject to factors beyond our control. Moreover, any accident or incident involving us, even if we are fully insured or not held to be liable, could negatively affect our reputation 10 Table of Contents among customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly affect the cost and availability of insurance in the future. Risks related to our operations outside of the United States could decrease our profitability. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to the risks associated with cross-border business transactions and activities. Political, legal, trade, or economic changes or instability could limit or curtail our respective foreign business activities and operations. Some foreign countries where we operate have regulatory authorities that regulate railroad safety, railcar design and railcar component part design, performance, and manufacture of equipment used on their railroad systems. If we fail to obtain and maintain certifications of our railcars and railcar parts within the various foreign countries where we operate, we may be unable to market and sell our railcars in those countries. In addition, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, more stringent rules relating to labor or the environment, adverse tax consequences, and price exchange controls could limit operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products difficult. Furthermore, any material change in the quotas, regulations, or duties on imports imposed by the United States government and agencies, or on exports by the government of Mexico or its agencies, could affect our ability to export products that we manufacture in Mexico. Because we do not have employment contracts with our key management employees, we may not be able to retain their services in the future. Our success depends on the continued services of our key management employees, none of whom currently have employment agreements with us. Although we have historically been successful in retaining the services of our key management, we may not be able to do so in the future. The loss of the services of one or more key members of our management team could result in increased costs associated with attracting and retaining a replacement and could disrupt our operations and result in a loss of revenues. Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, and other armed conflict involving the United States or its interests abroad may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. In particular, the negative impacts of these events may affect the industries in which we operate. This could result in delays in or cancellations of the purchase of our products or shortages in raw materials or component parts. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues, and costs. Violations of or changes in the regulatory requirements applicable to the industries in which we operate may increase our operating costs. We are subject to extensive regulation by governmental regulatory and industry authorities. Our railcar operations are subject to regulation by the United States Environmental Protection Agency; the Research and Special Programs Administration and the Federal Railroad Administration, both divisions of the United States Department of Transportation; and the Association of American Railroads. These organizations establish rules and regulations for the railcar industry, including construction specifications and standards for the design and manufacture of railcars; mechanical, maintenance, and related standards for railcars; safety of railroad equipment, tracks, and operations; and packaging and transportation of hazardous or toxic materials. Future changes that affect compliance costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Our Inland Barge operations are subject to regulation by the United States Coast Guard; the National Transportation Safety Board; the United States Customs Service; the Maritime Administration of the United States Department of Transportation; and private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. These organizations establish safety criteria, investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. Violations of these regulations and related laws can result in substantial civil and criminal penalties as well as injunctions curtailing operations. Our Construction Products Group business is subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation, the Federal Highway Administration, and various state highway departments. These organizations establish certain standards and specifications related to the manufacture of our highway products. If our products were found to be not in compliance with these standards and specifications, we would be required to re-qualify our products for installation on state and national highways. Our operations are also subject to regulation of health and safety matters by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration. We believe that we employ appropriate precautions to protect our employees and others from workplace injuries and harmful exposure to materials handled and managed at our facilities. However, claims that may be asserted against us for work-related illnesses or injury, and the further adoption of occupational 11 Table of Contents health and safety regulations in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate could increase our operating costs. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these health and safety laws and regulations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become involved in future litigation, investigations, or other proceedings or if we were found to be responsible or liable in any litigation, investigations, or proceedings, that such costs would not be material to us. We may be required to reduce the value of our long-lived assets and/or goodwill, which would weaken our financial results. We periodically evaluate for potential impairment the carrying values of our long-lived assets to be held and used. The carrying value of a long-lived asset to be held and used is considered impaired when the carrying value is not recoverable through undiscounted future cash flows and the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying value. Fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risks involved or market quotes as available. Impairment losses on long-lived assets held for sale are determined in a similar manner, except that fair values are reduced commensurate with the estimated cost to dispose of the assets. In addition, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually, or on an interim basis, whenever events or circumstances change, indicating that the carrying amount of the goodwill might be impaired. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process requiring the comparison of a reporting unit’s estimated fair value with the carrying amount of its net assets. Step two of the impairment test determines the amount of goodwill impairment to be recorded when a reporting unit’s recorded net assets exceed its fair value. We perform this test for our five principal business segments, considered to be “reporting units”: (1) the Rail Group, (2) the Construction Products Group, (3) the Inland Barge Group, (4) the Energy Equipment Group, and (5) the Railcar Leasing and Management Services Group. Due to an overall market decline for products in the Rail Group during the second quarter of 2009, we concluded that indications of impairment required an interim goodwill impairment analysis. Accordingly, we tested the Rail Group’s goodwill for impairment as of June 30, 2009 and recorded a charge of $325 million during the second quarter of 2009. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further explanation and results of this test. Any resulting impairment loss related to reductions in the value of our long-lived assets or our goodwill could weaken our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to minimize these risks, when considered appropriate, through the use of interest rate hedges and similar financial instruments and other activities, although these measures may not be implemented or effective. Any material and untimely changes in interest rates or exchange rates could result in significant losses to us. Railcars as a significant mode of transporting freight could decline, become more efficient over time, experience a shift in types of modal transportation and/or certain railcar types could become obsolete. As the freight transportation markets we serve continue to evolve and become more efficient, the use of railcars may decline in favor of other more economic transportation modalities. Features and functionality specific to certain railcar types could result in those railcars becoming obsolete as customer requirements for freight delivery change. Business, regulatory, and legal developments regarding climate change may affect the demand for our products or the ability of our critical suppliers to meet our needs. The Company has followed the current debate over climate change in general, and the related science, policy discussion, and prospective legislation. Additionally, the potential challenges and opportunities for the Company that climate change policy and legislation may pose, have been reviewed. However, any such challenges or opportunities are heavily dependent on the nature and degree of climate change legislation and the extent to which it applies to our industries. At this time, the Company cannot predict the ultimate impact of climate change and climate change legislation on the Company’s operations or opportunities. Potential opportunities could include greater demand for wind towers and certain types of rail cars, while potential challenges could include decreased demand for certain types of rail cars and higher energy costs. Further, when or if these impacts may occur cannot be assessed until scientific analysis and legislative policy are more developed and specific legislative proposals begin to take shape. 12 Table of Contents Additional Information. Our Internet website address is www.trin.net. Information on the website is available free of charge. We make available on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any reference to our website is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 13 Table of Contents 